

Abington Township
Abington is in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.


Understand[edit]
Abington Township named one the 100 best communities to live in America by Money Magazine is a township in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, United States. Just outside Philadelphia.
Abington Township is one of Montgomery County’s oldest communities dating back to before 1700
and being incorporated in 1704. It is home to some of the county’s oldest transportation routes,
industries and churches. Many of these older business and transportation centers were the forerunners
of modern Abington. Today, Abington Township is a highly desirable residential area that contains a major shopping center, several small businesses, and a few of Montgomery County's largest employers. With easy access to Philadelphia and such destinations as King of Prussia Mall, Sesame Place, Philadelphia Premium outlets, Abington is a great place to visit.

Get in[edit]
Map of Abington Township


By plane[edit]
Philadelphia International Airport (PHL IATA) - Just a thirty minute drive with trains to and from the airport to Abington.
By train[edit]
SEPTA - Northeast regional rail is an easy way to access Abington with many train stations throughout the town.
By bus[edit]
Buses from the city of Philadelphia travel in and around Abington as well.

By car[edit]
You can reach Abington by car by route 611 or the Pennsylvania turnpike exiting at Willow Grove/Abington.

See[edit]
 Alverthorpe Manor Art Museum. This small non profit community art center is a contemporary art museum located in the heart of Abington. In its historic, 27-acre campus in suburban Philadelphia, Abington Art Center is dedicated to providing opportunities for its many audiences to experience, appreciate and participate in the arts at whatever level they choose. From preschool to lifelong learners, casual observers to art enthusiasts, AAC engages visitors, artists and students with its sculpture park and gallery exhibitions of today’s artists, studio art classes, and public programs. 
 Bryn Athen Cathedral. The Episcopal seat of the General Church of the New Jerusalem, an international Swedenborgian Church. The cathedral is renowned for its stained glass collection and for its unusual architecture. It was built in the early 20th century, following the Gothic revivalist emergence. 
Do[edit]
40.106389-75.14751 Keswick Theatre, 291 Keswick Ave, Glenside. Catch a show or concert at the Keswick Theater. Nationally recognized by audiences and performing artists as the most comfortable, friendly, acoustically-perfect listening room in the Philadelphia area. It presents a broad range of internationally acclaimed performers geared to virtually every entertainment taste and interest in Glenside.   
 Arcadia University, 450 S. Easton Rd, Glenside, ☏ +1 215 572-2998. Grey Towers Castle, built in 1897; elegant Rose & Mirror Rooms, facilities for conferences, events and weddings. Art gallery. National Historic Landmark. For information call +1 215 572-2900. 
40.089722-75.1094442 Alverthorpe Park. Alverthorpe Park offers par-three golf, tennis, basketball, and swimming, as well as areas run, hike, or bike. The playground is open year-round and the preschool area has a wading pool for little ones. An adorable 18-hole miniature golf course. Camping season begins in April and runs through December. Reservations can be made at the Control Building in Alverthorpe Park. The fee is $5 per site, per night. Registration for fishing season in Alverthorpe Lake begins in May. You must have a fishing tag for which the cost is $2.75 daily for non-residents. Youth programs include USA Team Tennis Ralleyball designed to allow kids of all ages to play the game of tennis in an easy and fun way. Six-player teams are formed in several age divisions, from first grade through eighth grade-aged kids. Racquets are free for use during the season and participants receive a t-shirt uniform. The cost is $65 (non-resident). The preschool area is available for groups to utilize for a minimum fee of $30. The picnic shelter can also be rented for private function.  
Buy[edit]
40.1402-75.12341 Willow Grove Park Mall, 2500 Moreland Road, ☏ +1 215 657-6000. M-Sa 10AM-9PM, Su 11AM-6PM. This shopping mall consists of over 130 stores on three floors and is anchored by Bloomingdale's, Sears, Primark, Macy's, and Nordstrom Rack. The mall offers a food court and sit-down dining options including The Cheesecake Factory and TGI Fridays. The mall has a carousel located on the third floor near the food court.   (updated Feb 2017)
Eat[edit]
Budget[edit]
 Levis Hot Dogs, 966 Old York Rd (Between the Library and The Fairway), ☏ +1 215-572-1895, levishotdogs@verizon.net. 11AM-5PM. Hot dogs and sandwiches including home made South Philly roast beef and pork. Iconic Champ Cherry soda. It moved from Philadelphia after almost 100 years. Original recipe all beef hot dogs and fishcake sandwiches. 
The Kitchen Bar, on 611 about three miles from the Pennsylvania turnpike. Kitchen bar is open for breakfast, lunch, dinner and late night drinks. The huge menu includes everything from appetizers, sandwiches, salads and pizza to full course dinners of meat, chicken, fish and more. Kitchen Bar provides a wholesome and delicious meal to satisfy any appetite at any meal. Kitchen bar also features a  bar and lounge with live entertainment every weekend. In addition, they offer a newly renovated private banquet room that will accommodate from 20 to 70 people for parties and meetings.
Mid-range[edit]
Ookaa - Authentic Hibachi-style Japanese cooking. Be sure to ask for the flaming volcano.
Splurge[edit]
Stefano's Ristorante Italiano, Huntingdon Pike. This BYOB has authentic Italian food. It is owned and operated by three generations of the Terra Family and is in Huntingdon Valley. Over 60 years of experience in preserving the time-honored tradition of preparing superlative food with only the freshest and finest ingredients.
Dessert[edit]
Sprinkles, in Elkins Park on Township line on the edge of Abington. This mom-and-pop ice cream parlor serves homemade ice cream.
Sleep[edit]
 Days Inn, 245 Easton Rd (in nearby Horsham), ☏ +1 215-674-2500. 
Go next[edit]


Routes through Abington Township




Doylestown ← Willow Grove ←

 N  S 

→ Jenkintown → Philadelphia


Warminster ← Willow Grove ←

 N  S 

→ Jenkintown → Philadelphia


Philadelphia ← Jenkintown ←

 SW  NE 

→ reenters Philadelphia → Bensalem → Ewing









This city travel guide to Abington Township is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Abington_Township&oldid=4502530"