
Adoor is a well known municipal town in Kerala in India.

Adoor Town Sky-View

Get in[edit]
By bus[edit]
From Thiruvananthapuram (100 km) or Kochi (130 km).

Get around[edit]
9°9′24″N 76°43′49″EMap of Adoor
By bus[edit]
KSRTC buses connect Adoor with almost all important places in Kerala.A new inter-state service was also introduced. A new KSRTC scania luxury bus was also introduced which helps travel to Bangalore. Getting to nearby places is quite easy as there are a number of private buses connecting villages in and around Adoor. Other major routes through Adoor are:

Kayamkulam     -    Punaloor            (Ordinary and Fast)
Kayamkulam     -    Kottarakkara        (Ordinary and Fast)
Kayamkulam     -    Pathanamthitta       (Ordinary)
Kottayam       -    Kottarakkara        (Ordinary, Fast and Express)
Kottayam       -    Thiruvanathapuram   (Ordinary, Fast and Express)
Ernakulam      -    Thiruvanathapuram   (Ordinary, Fast and Express)
Guruvayoor     -    Thiruvananthapuram  (Ordinary, Fast and Express)
Kollam         -    Pathanamthitta      (Private and Govt.)
Chavara        -    Pathanamthitta      (Private)
Karunagappally -    Pathanamthitta      (Private and Govt.)
KSRTC Bus Stand Contact no: 04734 224767

By car[edit]
From Thiruvananthapuram to Adoor  -  2 Hrs (85 KM)
From Ernakulam (Cochin)  to Adoor  -  3 Hrs (130 km)
For internal Travel minimum charge will be ₹10 and every one km the charge is ₹8 in day time and ₹10 in night. Autorickshaws are available throughout the day and are deployed at Central Bus Stand.

By foot[edit]
From Adoor Central Govt. Bus Stand to Private Bust Stand   -  10 Min.
From Adoor Central Govt. Bus Stand to Revenue Tower        -  5 Min. ( Near To Private Bus Stand)
From Adoor Central Govt. Bus Stand to Parthasarathy Temple -  2 Min.
From Adoor Central Govt. Bus Stand to Chennampallil Temple -  15 Min.
From Adoor Central Govt. Bus Stand to Trichennamangalam Mahadevar Temple - 20 Min. (Peringinadu)
See[edit]
Poothamkara Shri Dharma Shastha Temple
 Parthasarathy Temple (near the Private Bus Stand). The most important temple in town. 
 Trichenamangalam Mahadevar Temple (10 kilometers away at Peringanad). 
 Sree Dharma Sastha Temple (5 kilometers away at Chenampalil). 
 Peedikayil Devi Temple (Pannivizha). A wonderful temple with century old traditions. 
 Sree Mahadevar Temple (Pannivizha). One of the rare Dekshinamoorthy temples with century old traditions. 
 Ezhamkulam Devi Temple (5 km from Adoor Town). Famous for "Garudan Thookam and Kettukazhcha" that takes place as a part of the annual Kumbhabharani Festival. 
 Ammummakavu Devi Temple (Chiranickal), Parakode North - Chiranickal (5 km from Adoor Town). Ammummakavu is the Propitiating Mother Goddess. 
 Kodumon Palliyara Devi Temple (Chilanthi Ambalam), 1.5 km East of Kodumon Jn: (8 km from Adoor Town). The water of the Chilanthikinar (Well) on the premises of this temple is believed to cure skin diseases. 
 Orippurathu Bhagavathi Temple, Orippuram Thattayil (Adoor - Thumpamon Road Take diversion from Keerukuzhy Jn.). 8 KM from Adoor Town Easy Access By road 
 Bhagavatikunnu Devi Temple (Elamannoor Bhoothamkara), Durga Temple (Temple). 
Do[edit]
 Indilayappan Temple, Parakode (3 km away). one of the different "Bhava" related to "Lord Ayyapa Swami" 
 St Mary's Orthodox Church, karuvatta, adoor, ☏ +91 4734 227137. 
 Mahadevar Temple (devi temple), puthussery bhagom (south). 20 mts. 
Sacred Heart Malankara Catholic Church, central tall, near Gandhismriti Maidain and Holy Angel's EMHSS
Buy[edit]
 Asha Fancy (Adoor Central Junction), ☏ +91 4734228179. The number one super shop. 
 JJ stores (Adoor Parackode road), ☏ +91 4734228179. The number one super shop. 
 Sree Moolam Market. One of the oldest market places in Kerala. 
 G K General Stores & Textiles (In Nellimukal to Thengamam Road, Plakadu Jn), ☏ +91 9961785565. 
 Parakode Market (Anandarama puram market), K. P. Road (2 km). Well-known market. (updated Dec 2022)
 Trissur Gold, Adoor (East of KSRTC). 
Eat[edit]
 Hotel Wyte Portico, Adoor (Near High School Junction), ☏ +91 815783116. 
 Kream Korner (near Karikineth textiles). 
 Kream Korner (near Karikineth textiles). 
 Thomson Bakery and Food Court (Near Parackode and near KSRTC Stand.). Restaurant and Food Court. 
 Arabian Grills, Central Jn. (200 Mtrs East of KSRTC Bus Stand). 
 Aarya Bhavan, Adoor (Near KSRTC). 
 Aaryaas, Adoor (Near KSRTC stand). 
 Merlins Bakery and Food Court, Adoor (NH 183 Bypass Adoor). 
 Kavery Dine In, Adoor (Near KSRTC Bus Station). 
 Fancy Palace, Market Jn, Adoor. 08:00am-10:00pm. 
Drink[edit]
 Indraprastha Bar. 
 KTDC Beer Parlor, Adoor. 
 Central Park (Bar & Restaurant), Opp Maria Hospital. 
 Thomsun Restaurant (adoor- parakode route). 
Sleep[edit]
 Lals Residency. 
 Hotel Wyte Portico, ☏ +91 8157831166. 4 star hotel 
 Fathima Tourist Home, Central Jn. Adoor (East of Adoor KSRTC Bust Station). 
 Dickson Tourist Home, Adoor Kerala (Near Pvt Bus Stand and Taluk Hospital). 
 Paruvackal Lodge, Adoor (Near RDO Office). 
Go next[edit]







This city travel guide to Adoor is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Adoor&oldid=4730397"