
Adrogué is a city and capital of the Almirante Brown partido (district) in Buenos Aires (province) Province in Argentina.


Understand[edit]
Adrogué is 23 km south of the City of Buenos Aires. With slightly more than 30,000 inhabitants, it stands out as a distinguished residential area, with numerous cobbled streets, lush trees and several squares. In addition, it has an important commercial center, with a variety of shops and bank entities, and a shopping mall.
The best seasons of the year to visit Adrogué are the spring and the summer, because the city looks really green. The lush trees cast some sort of an arcade over the streets, which makes a beautiful picture. The stillness and peacefulness of the city are an ideal contrast for the chaotic downtown.
Adrogué is not a common tourist destination, but it's worth a visit. The place is safe, but traveling to and from downtown after midnight is just not nice.

Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
Getting in by train is the easiest way to make your way to Adrogué if you're coming from the City of Buenos Aires. From the Constitución train station, you should take a train going either to stations Glew or Alejandro Korn (normally leaving from either platform 4 or 5). You can get from Downtown Buenos Aires to Constitución using the C line of the subway (subte).
A one-way ticket from Constitución to Adrogué costs ARS 0.70 (about USD 0.20) and a return ticket costs ARS 1.40 (about USD 0.40).
The trip from Constitución to Adrogué takes 28 minutes (it may take longer in the rush hour). Adrogué is the ninth station from Constitución. The order of the stations is: Constitución - Hipólito Yrigoyen - Avellaneda - Gerli - Lanús - Remedios de Escalada - Banfield - Lomas de Zamora - Temperley - Adrogué.
The first train from Constitución to either Glew or Alejandro Korn leaves at around 05:00 and the last train from Adrogué to Constitución leaves at around 00:00.
It is not recommended to travel by train as it is usually crowded, and security and cleanliness on the coaches are poor.

By bus[edit]
Buses in Argentina are called colectivos. The bus will usually take longer than the train because it makes more detours. However, this will depend on the traffic. The advantage is that buses normally run around the clock.
Near Constitución station you can take any bus 79 except the one which goes to San José (it takes a different route and don't make it to Adrogué).
From Correo Central, close to the Pink House, you can take bus 74.
Bus 160 will also take you to Adrogué from Ciudad Universitaria (UBA campus), Palermo or Jorge Newbery Airport (Aeroparque).
In all cases, you should ask the driver to tell you where to get off.
The ticket costs ARS 1.35 (about USD 0.40) and can only be paid with coins (no banknotes!). Remember to get some before taking the bus.
Getting to Adrogué by bus may take from 1h15min to 1h30min.

By Van[edit]
Vans are often called Combis in Argentina. There is a private Combi service traversing from Teatro Colón in the City of Buenos Aires to Adrogué and beyond. The trip usually costs ARS 9.00 and is by far the most comfortable way to travel.
The trip takes about 1 hr, and may take up to 1 hr 30 min during rush hours. It is also possible to reserve your place in advance.
- Adrogue Bus (Shuttle Company): 4293-5309

By taxi[edit]
A taxi from the City of Buenos Aires (from the Obelisk, for example) to Adrogué costs about ARS 80. This is a good option if you're visiting Adrogué in a group of 3 or 4 people. The trip may take from 50 minutes to 1 hr 15 min depending on traffic conditions.

By car[edit]
You can go from the Obelisco in Buenos Aires to Adrogué taking 9 de Julio avenue to the south, then 9 de Julio Sur freeway, and taking Pavón/Yrigoyen avenue. Adrogué starts approximately at 12.500 Yrigoyen avenue.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
If you are interested in architecture, you'll like the houses in Adrogué. Some nice-looking houses are on Seguí street, for example.
Some of Adrogué's earliest residences are still preserved. They were usually built in French, Italian or English style, and they served as summer houses for many of Buenos Aires wealthiest families between 1870 and 1930. Some of the best examples are the Adrogué Tennis Club, former residence of city founder Esteban Adrogué (Macías & Sánchez streets), the St. Michael's School (Uriburu street & St. Michael's alley)and the former Aráoz Castex residence (Seguí & Avellaneda streets), among others.
There are many parks and squares. Some squares are actually rotaries. The main square is Plaza Brown. The town hall, the church of Saint Gabriel, and a religious school (Colegio del Carmen) are located opposite to it. Connected to it by diagonals are the Bynnon, Espora, Cerreti and Bouchard squares. The square next to the train station is Plaza San Martín.
In the commercial area there's the so-called House of Culture (Casa de la Cultura), with different expositions and plays.
The Boulevard shopping mall is located in Adrogué. You can get there with bus 318 (will leave you close to it) or by taxi (remise).

-34.890944-58.3847781 Santa Ana Chapel, Glew. Glew is a little town in Almirante Brown, half an hour from Buenos Aires, to the south. Its name comes from the first owner of these lands, Juan Glew. In 1905, Santa Ana Chapel was inaugurated. At the same time, in Buenos Aires, Raul Soldi was born. He would be one of the most known Argentinean plastic artists. This story began in the early 1950s, when Soldi arrived in the town and immediately loved its quiet streets, with only a few sulkies coming and going from time to time. Shortly after he bought a weekend house where he stayed during the summers. There he met Santa Ana Chapel which was built by Pablo Regazzoni in neoclassical style. It had a double bell tower, with a brick facade, a gable roof, white walls covered with lime and wooden saints. This motivated the painter to give it color and paint different figures. So, since 1953 he worked during 23 summers with the frescoes renaissance technique. First, he prepared the walls and then he applied paint with a spatula. He finished one series of 13 frescoes that showed Virgin Maria’s life. A curiosity is that it’s possible to recognize some places or landscapes, and some people from he town, for example the place where the Virgin was born was the yard of a house near the temple. You can also discover the windmills, the village library and even the façade of the chapel. Above, where the choir stans, is the figure of the poet friar and next to him the parish priest and the altar boy of that time. Santa Cecilia, who is sitting on the organ, is the girl who sang on Sunday Mass. Other figures represent the friend of the teacher’s wife, through whom he met the town, and the person who cleaned the place. Santa Ana is a known neighbor who sang at the church choir. The paintings have been restored and they are well preserved. Later he bought a second and a third house where the Soldi Fundation works today. Here you can find 60 works, oil paintings, drawings and engravings that he donated in life. Daniel Soldi, the artist’s son, is in charge of the foundation.  
Do[edit]
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
 Las Empanadas de la Abuela, Francisco Seguí 795, ☏ +54 11 4294-2075. Seguí 795. (about 200 meters west from the train station) prepares the finest homemade empanadas (traditional Argentinian pastry) in the region and some other traditional dishes. 
Artisanal Ice Cream Riviera, Esteban Adrogué 1180. both bar and icecream parlor, is one the most important companies in the region. They produce high-quality icecream, desserts and chocolate at competitive prices. They are open all through the year (except for the chocolate shop, which closes during the summer). Locals usually get together for an icecream (it's not uncommon to have a quarter kilo, which costs ARS 6.00). The flavor dulce de leche granizado is a must.
 Sandwichería Espora, Esteban Adrogué 1309. M-Sa 08:00-17:00, Su 08:00-16:00. Esteban Adrogué 1381, prepares the finest sandwiches de miga in the region. 
As a snack, you can try the alfajor Capitán del espacio (blanco), one of the preferred ones by the locals. It costs about ARS 0.50 and all the kiosks sell it.
The restaurants are located in or close to the commercial center, which in turn is located a few meters east of the train station. All of them offer good service, good-quality food and fair prices. Some of the most renowned restaurants are:

Trote bar & restaurant, Esteban Adrogué 1107, Paseo la Delicia, is one of the most important restaurants in Adrogué, and is surrounded by a beautiful garden.
María Bonita pizza and restaurant, Mitre 1195, a very nice and popular place.
La Zorra, the pasta they serve is said to be really good.
 Filomena, Esteban Adrogué 1102, ☏ +54 11 4294-5517. M-F 07:00-00:00, Sa 07:30-00:00, Su 09:00-00:00. All sorts of hearty plates with plantains or French fries; pizzas; and coffee and seltzers. 
Tirifilo el Bodegon, in the corner of Spiro and Cordero. Spaniard (Tapas, Paella, Cazuela, Pulpo a la gallega), some Argentinian traditional dishes ( Locro on national holidays), and our own Porteño flavor (Puchero on Tuesday nights) . A new must in the Adrogue station area.
Drink[edit]
All the restaurants also serve drinks and work as bars. There are also many pubs and bars like La Maja, Bernie's, Franz, Cándida, Havanna, Satchmo's, La Bikina, La Colorada and more. There are also a few tea houses.

Sleep[edit]
-34.802892-58.3988831 Teresita Bed and Breakfast, Spiro 456 Adrogue, ☏ +54 11 4293 599. With its own private bathroom with all the amenities needed, is designed to give you all the comforts you expect. This ground-floor brick-wall Cottage exhibits rustic charm, with exposed cypress-beam high ceilings and Mexican terracotta-tile floors. Charming brick wall, ground floor unit with exposed cypress beam high-ceilings and Mexican terracotta-tile flooring. Rustic furnishings with South American indigenous art accents. Antique bathrooms fixtures. Designed to provide the ultimate in privacy, blending rustic beauty with modern amenities for a truly comfortable experience while in Buenos Aires. 
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Adrogué is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Adrogué&oldid=4401408"