

Ajman (Arabic: عجمان Ajmān) is the smallest of the emirates and a city of United Arab Emirates. Al Zaher Palace, Ajman

Understand[edit]
Ajman is the smallest of the seven emirates and is centrally located on the western coast of the United Arab Emirates. The Emirate lies on the Gulf coast where its beach extends for 16 km, and the total area of Ajman is 259 km³. Its population estimate is about 230 thousand as the year of 2004. The area of the Emirate of Ajman is about 460 km2. while the total area including the regional waters is about 600 km2. Ajman City is the capital of the Emirate and lies down at a small creek of 16 km. length to the North East of Sharjah.
The ruling family of Ajman is the AL Nuaimi tribe.

Get in[edit]
Ajman enjoys being located in the middle of the Emirates as a whole. The emirate borders Sharjah and is only 10 km away from Dubai in the south and Umm Al Quwain in the north. Many roads lead to and from Ajman from both Sharjah, Dubai, and Umm al Quwain.including Emirates Road. Ajman is near to the ports of neighboring Emirates. It is near the international airports of both Sharjah and Dubai. Ajman is planning to build an international airport in the area of Manama. To get to Ajman you can take a taxi from any airport to Ajman city, or other wise rent a car and drive there through Emirates Highway. Taxis go to Sharjah and Dubai, and also to Ra's al Khaymah and Umm al Quwain. If you are planning to stay there and use it as base to visit Dubai expect traffic jams at rush hours.

Get around[edit]
25°24′12″N 55°29′49″EMap of Ajman
By taxi[edit]
Taxis are really easy to find and are convenient for getting around in Ajman. Of course taxis can also be used to get to other emirates too. Look for the unmetered Ajman taxi as they offer cheaper prices than the official metered ones, e.g. 10 dirhams to Sharja, 40 dirhams to Dubai (best during the peak times.)
Look out for shared taxis that wait for 4 people to come and take the taxi, where you pay 10 dirhams to Dubai when 4 people are sharing the taxi. These are "unofficial" taxis, located in the Somali area of Ajman.

By tour bus[edit]
Guided tour buses can be found at top hotels where can arrange a tour to Ajman and main attractions in it.

See[edit]
 Ajman Museum. An old fort in the central square.  Built in the late 16th century it has serve as the ruler's palace.  In the 70’s it was put under usage as a police station.  You can see different artifacts and reconstruction of traditional life. 4 dirhams (about 1 USD). (updated Jun 2018)
Beach
Ajman beach is always a nice place to spend the day in with the warm sun, white sands, and clear waters. Dolphin spotting is also a recreation activity enjoyed in the emirate.

Buy[edit]
Designer outlets and major brands are available in City Center Mall and consist of a wide variety of food outlets too. In the traditional side, there is always the Iranian souq were you can buy domestic goods and if you are lucky some interesting pottery.

Eat[edit]
India House (Sheikh Humaid bin Abdul al-Aziz St; mains 4 to 10 Dhs)
Lulu Hypermarket has a nice cafe that is not too pricey, average 10 dirhams for a whole meal with a drink, and portions are huge so it is money well spent. A wide selection of smoothies are also available at reasonable prices.
Beach front cafe eating is good and cheap.  2 doner kebab style wrap sandwiches in chicken or lamb, with fresh fruit smoothie costs about 15 Dhs.
Maramis Cafe is the best place for Shisha in Ajman. Air conditioned and quality service with Internet.
 Ajman Fish Market (Fish Market). A great place to see fisherman bring out the fresh catch and watch the middlemen auction them to the shopkeepers. Its possible to buy fish and get it cooked right there in the fish market or across the street. 
Viking Restaurant. A unique medieval-styled restaurant located in the Heritage Area of Ajman. Inside customers can enjoy the live shows, including live music and fire performances, and try dishes, inspired by Viking culture. Interiors are decorated in a medieval style too. As of January 2024 it's the number 1 restaurant in Ajman by TripAdvisor rating and World Culinary Awards.
Drink[edit]
Alcohol is allowed in Ajman and is available easily at hotels and restaurants.
Tap water is considered ok but it has a slightly salted taste. The obvious reason is that desalination plants are used to provide tap water.  More to the point, you can safely use it to brush your teeth and prepare tea.
Bottled water is also available in any store around town.
The famous "Hole In The Wall" - located next to the Kempinski Hotel Ajman - was one of the few liquor shops in Ajman. Now moved down the street near the Beach Resort.  It is NOT closed.

Sleep[edit]
Mid-range[edit]
Dana Beach Resort, Arabian Gulf street, +971 6 742 9999. Attractive hotel with rooms facing the beach. Suites also include kitchens for longer stays. Restaurant serves no alcohol. Rooms Dh130, suites from Dh325
 Emirates Plaza Hotel, Omer bin al-Khattab St, ☏ +971 6 744 5777, fax: +971 6 744 6642. Clean and basic hotel with helpful staff. The beach is just across the street. Rooms on the right side have a splendid view of the gulf! Singles Dh130, doubles Dh150. 
High-range[edit]
 Kempinski Hotel Ajman, Sheikh Humaid Bin Rashid Al Nuaimi St, ☏ +971 6 714 5555. 5 star hotel, sprawled along the shores of Ajman, Kempinski Hotel Ajman boasts over 500 metres of private beach, one of the best in the United Arab Emirates, with white sand and clear waters stretching into the Persian Gulf. 
Stay safe[edit]
Stay healthy[edit]
Doctors — There are lots of speciality clinics in Ajman. Ibin Sina Medical Centre is affordable and has most of the specialities. The doctors fee ranges from AED 50 to 100. Diagnostic services also available. GMC Hospital is open 24 hours for emergencies. Sh Khalifa Hospital is the public hospital with an emergency department.
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Ajman is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ajman&oldid=4835610"