
Altagracia is on the island of Ometepe, in the Southern Pacific Coast region of Nicaragua.

Inside Iglesia Altagracia

Understand[edit]
Altagracia is the other major town (besides Moyogalpa) on Ometepe. It has twice-weekly ferries to and from San Carlos and Granada, when the lake conditions (water level and wind) allow.

Get in[edit]
Either by ferry[dead link] from San Carlos (about nine hours) or Granada (roughly three hours) or by bus from Moyogalpa. The bus costs around US$1. If you carry a backpack, they may charge you a bit extra if it is not in the overhead compartment. Buses start leaving for Moyogalpa at around 08:00. The section of the street between the two towns is the best on the island, which still doesn't mean it is in great shape. On the plus side, you see more of the breathtaking landscape on the roughly one hour trip.
You can do the 25-km trip between the two towns on a bike or on horseback, but you shouldn't try it walking even though it might look deceptively close on a map.

Get around[edit]
The town itself is not big enough to merit using a taxi. The harbor, however, is a little bit farther out. It is a 2-km hike through unremarkable landscape with little shade if you want to save the money for a taxi or can't find one. As you arrive after sundown (coming from San Carlos) it is highly advisable to take a taxi or transport via your hotel (if you have reservations ask whether they can meet you there if you don't some hotels will take you to their place "without any commitment") from the harbor to town.

See[edit]
The Parque Central has a model of the island.
There is an Ometepe Museum, a 3-room affair a block west of central park, with a collection of ancient pottery, petroglyphs, and statuary, labeled mostly in Spanish. Admission US$2.
There are good views of volcan Concepcion just out of town
Do[edit]
You can hike up Volcán Concepción from here (guides mandatory and strongly recommended). It is a long steep hike to the top, so only do this in good condition and with appropriate shoes. Bring enough water (more than 2 liters) as there is hardly any shade above roughly 1000 meters height. Be prepared for strong winds once you leave the jungle as well. A decent sweatshirt in your rucksack might just do the trick.

Buy[edit]
There are several ATMs in town, and the market has most of your daily needs, including cheap souvenir T-shirts of varying quality.

Eat[edit]
The centrally located market has a small selection of basic food-stands serving your classic gallo pinto and other Nicaraguan foods.

 Los Bocaditos Jr., Del parque central dos cuadras Norte, ☏ +505 8413 8033. (updated Jun 2015)
 Restaurante Castillo, de la Iglesia Católica una cuadra al sur media cuadra al oeste, ☏ +505 2569 4506, hotelcastillo@hotmail.com. (updated Jun 2015)
Among the town's small grocery stores, the bigger and cleaner Commercial San Diego (in the main street, just south of Hotel Central) stands out. They even have functioning refrigerator and freezer cases, with yogurt and ice cream - a rarity in the island. Closed on Sundays (as are most businesses in the island).

Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Hospedaje Ortiz. Cheapest place in town, a block or so from the central plaza. There are reports about money being stolen from guests, hence the extremely cheap rates for accommodation. 
 Hotel y Restaurante Charco Verde, Charco Verde, San José del Sur, Municipio de Altagracia, ☏ +505 2560 1271, charcoverde22@yahoo.es. A bit out of town in the Charco Verde area rooms from US$48.20. (updated Jun 2015)
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
San Carlos (Nicaragua) and the Rio San Juan Region
Granada (Nicaragua)
Moyogalpa
the Maderas side of the island





This city travel guide to Altagracia is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Altagracia&oldid=4885994"