


Anjuna is a popular beach in Goa, north of the beaches of Baga and Calangute, and close to the beaches of Vagator and Chapora.  The nearest town is Mapusa, which is a few kilometres to the east.


Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
You have to get down at Mapusa train station: Thivim.
Then the cheapest is to take the local bus to Mapusa bus station: Kadamba.
- go out of the train station, across the parking, and along the road, if you don't see the bus, ask. Then in Kadamba, Just ask around where is the bus to Anjuna. It will cost you less than ₹10 to get to Anjuna from Mapusa by the sometimes crowded buses, or ₹350 by auto-rickshaw

By bus[edit]
You'll arrive near Kadamba, or depending on the bus company sometimes directly inside Kadamba.

Get around[edit]
Map of Anjuna
You can either hire some transport or use the public transport, there's lots of choices available. For taxis, motorbike taxis and autorickshaws you can nearly always find some available near the main crossroads (Starco Junction) and it's best to negotiate the price before you get in.

By bicycles[edit]
It is possible to hire bicycles, usually without gears and somewhat dangerous to ride given the traffic. It's illegal to drive on the highway without a helmet as you'll probably be fined.

By hire motorbikes[edit]
A great way to get around is to hire scooters or motorbikes. On a daily basis which can range from ₹150 to ₹400, depending on what you hire. They may require a small deposit, but don't leave your passport, you can leave a photocopy if you are asked. Bikes are available easily, just ask the locals who own restaurants, and shacks. refrain from asking the locals who run road-side stalls or at flea markets. Also a good idea would be to ask the person at the reception at your hotel. If you're lucky, they can arrange one for you. If you do manage to get one please fill the tank to the fullest, as petrol pumps are far away from each other.
No one seems to wear helmets and the traffic can be busy especially in peak season. It's not a good place to learn how to ride a scooter or motorbike. You should have an international drivers licence to ride a bike. If you are going to go into Mapusa or Panaji find a helmet, the police will want a bribe (baksheesh) if you don't have one or an international license.
With a small scooter, it's wise not to go further than Arambol to the north, Mapusa inside land, and stop before the highway to Panaji to the south. If you have a decent scooter or bigger bike and a helmet you can travel almost anywhere in Goa, but drive carefully: dogs, goats, cows are wandering on the roads which are in some places falling apart.
The nearest petrol pump is near Vagator, to get there head north at Starco junction until you hit the main T junction at Vagator, turn right and head for about 2 km (1.2 mile) just past where the road merges with the main road into Chapora, the petrol pump is on your left, join the queue of waiting bikes.
Petrol is also available in one-litre bottles at most of the stores around Anjuna, although the price would be roughly 60% higher than from the gas station and also purity is hard to guarantee.

By local bus[edit]
These are very cheap and are a good way to get to other towns like Mapusa or Vagator but won't take you off the beaten track.
There are many buses to Mapusa during the daytime. If you see one, just wave your hand and it will stop for you (price is less than ₹10). Otherwise you can wait at main crossing.
Almost all sleeper buses depart from Mapusa. you have to book your ticket from a travel agency, and get to the company office half an hour before departure time.

By motorcycle taxi[edit]
These are a Goan specialty: pay the driver and he'll take you where you want to go, probably the cheapest form of public transport after local buses. Most short trips cost around ₹100. You will find one at Starco Junction.

By auto rickshaw[edit]
The usual Indian autorickshaws are also available, cheaper than taxis more than motorbike taxis. Negotiate.

By taxi[edit]
The most expensive option but the best for getting further afield like the airport or if you want to  visit Old Goa or the beaches in South Goa.
You'll find bikes and tourist vehicles willing to get you where you want for a price near a main crossing. They usually don't use a meter so be sure to agree on a price before you get in. You can ask at the place you stay, or in the garage where you rent your bike, they'll be happy to get a taxi for you, most of the time for a reasonable price.

By train[edit]
The nearest train station is Thivim a.k.a. Mapusa train station. As it is a dozen kilometres from Anjuna, you better go there by bus or taxi.
You will find many travel agencies in Anjuna where you can book plane, train or bus tickets, check schedule, confirm your flight, etc. one of the most reliable can be found on the post office street. From the main road, on the way to Mapusa, turn right between the 2 two-speed breakers, then go straight and you'll see a change rates sign on the right side of the road, the agency is on the right side.

See[edit]
Anjuna beach is to the west of the village with lot of restaurants and bars. Not really the most beautiful beach you can see in Goa, and not a quiet place (beware of the incidental skydiver landing on the beach, watch out for that infuriated cow), it is still possible to have good times there.
Anjuna Flea Market happens on Wednesdays and runs from morning till dawn. Go early if you want to hunt for bargains, take a rest at noon and come back when it's not as hot anymore. The market offers pretty much anything of what you can think of. Haggling is expected and failing to do so means missing out on the best part. After the flea market is over in the evening you can visit Cafe Looda for live performance by many musicians.
Apart from that there is not really much to see in Anjuna.

Do[edit]
Chapora fort near Anjuna beach
In Anjuna, there is an ATM (see Money section).
It is possible to rent bikes, rooms, houses. You can also find many cyber cafes, such as at Nehal Travels and  Manali Guest House. There is Manali Bookshop, restaurants with different kinds of food (Goan, Indian, continental, Israeli, Italian, French), small grocery shops, a convenience store (Oxford's Arcade), and 24/7 open restaurant (Munchies).

Beach[edit]
Anjuna Beach is to the south of the village with its usual lot of restaurants and bars. Not really the most beautiful beach you can see in Goa, and not really a quiet place (beware of the occasional skydiver landing on the beach, watch out for that one infuriated cow), but it's still possible to have good times there.

Nightlife[edit]
Anjuna is also the home of the most popular night club of Goa: Paradiso, and so despite the fact that they will try to charge some people with entrance fee (₹200 to ₹500) and not others. Most of the time the security service will prevent the locals to enter the club. even if it's worth going in once to enjoy the view, this is not the place where you want to go if you're looking for parties. Better go to nine bar or hilltop in Vagator and ask around for open-air parties.
There are nightclubs catering to western package tourists in Baga and Calangute to the south that are easy enough to get to by taxi.
Curlies This is definitely one of the best places in Goa during daytime for trance people, freaks and hippies. It is next to the Anjuna Flea Market place, on the extreme south of Anjuna beach.  
Nice beach shacks playing psy trance & ambient in Curlies bar, and Israeli psy trance in some another beach shack 50 m further to the south. @curliesparty is on Twitter.

Outdoor parties[edit]
Anjuna is famous for its parties, however they are increasingly being discouraged by the authorities, you may be unlucky and not find any while you are here due to the police stopping them, you may want to try Arambol further north. As many business owners complain about plunging visitor numbers, the next government (and season) might allow more parties.
Places to find parties near Anjuna are at the beach. If there's one when you're around, be sure to go to one of the famous full moon parties, or one of the less known black moon parties.
You can spot where the parties are by looking for the flickering lights of the "chai ladies" on the beach. They always congregate where the parties are happening, and the flames from their kerosene lamps are a great signpost.
Best idea is to go to Nine Bar in Vagator and ask around.

Buy[edit]
Fashion showroom Miriam Strehlau - The showroom of the designer is just behind the shore bar and offers the opportunity to purchase limited editions and customized pieces besides the actual collections as well as home accessories artwork. Characteristic for the design is the fusion of contemporary and tradition style. A mix of innovative materials, sustainable fabrics and handcrafted Indian textiles.
Ingos Saturday Night Market - This one is a must-go, more diversity in the shops, good quality items, food stands but also usually more crowded. Many foreigners have businesses in the market. It's on the way to Arpora from Anjuna. You can also find some smaller night markets around, some are worth spending some time inside, others aren't. Ingos is on the other side of the new road bridge just north of Siolim. Many of the Westerner stall holders are at Mackies.
Mackies Saturday Night Bazaar - This Goan run night-market is north of the river at Baga, to get there follow the windy road that heads south from Oxford Stores until the T junction at Baga river, the entrance is just across the road to the left. Indian store-holders are concentrated in the first section, in the middle is a large bandstand with live music which seems to consist of popular covers. Beer for sale. Past the bandstand are the westerners stalls and the food stalls.
Osama - A boutique that stocks some hip shirts and accessories that is quite exclusive. They also have branches in Baga on Tito's Lane and in Arambol on the main road leading to the beach.
Roadside and Beach Stalls - It's impossible to miss these, you will be hounded by their owners saying 'come look my shop' at every opportunity. They have some good textiles and tee-shirts but mostly have the same items and there's much more choice at the markets. If you bargain hard you can get things for a good price but you may find the experience a bit draining.
Wednesday Flea Market - On the way to the beach by main road, you'll cross the Wednesday flea market location. The Anjuna flea market is attracting so many people from all north Goa every Wednesday that the traffic becomes a problem in south Anjuna. if you're going with a 2-wheeler you'll have to pay a few rupees for parking. Inside the market, you'll find all the shops that are on the streets the rest of the week and some more. be careful not to be fooled by the sellers who will tell you that it's not even their cost price or that they can sell it to someone else for 3 or 4 times the price you want. If you plan to open your own shop in the flea market, it will cost you ₨100.
Money[edit]
There are three ATMs in Anjuna now right next to Dominoes Pizza: AXIS bank, HDFC bank & Kotak Mahindra. This is as you enter Anjuna from Baga side on the way to Starcos. There is also a Corp bank ATM on the road that connects to Vagator/Chapora from Starcos junctions.

Eat[edit]
15.58116173.7378761 Avalon Sunset, ☏ +91 98225 86268. A multicuisine restaurant by the shore serving Indian, Israeli, Continental and Chinese food. Very friendly staff. Being on the shore by the rocks it s a great place just sit by and enjoy an afternoon drink. It's the first restaurant as you walk southwards towards the beach on the main street of Anjuna. They also hire bikes and has Wi-Fi. They even have laptops that they let the customers use. 
15.58318273.7403832 Basilico, Dmello Vaddo, ☏ +91 98221 04817. Serves pizza and pasta. Is near main crossing, to get there turn left on the way to Paradiso from main crossing, you'll see the sign indicating the way. 
 Bean Me Up Restaurant and Guest House (next to Anjuna Petrol station), ☏ +91 2273479. A popular organic restaurant. Lots of vegetarian and vegan options, amazing choice of salads and the food is fresh and healthy, they do have musicians playing on certain nights, open for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Rooms also available. 
15.58519873.7410283 Biryani Palace, ☏ +91 99237 29513. Just down for Starco corner, this slightly more expensive restaurant specializes in North Indian dishes like kebabs, biryani and tandoori dishes. Friendly waiters. 
15.56955373.7422464 Curlies Shack (near Flea Market, Montero Waddo), ☏ +91 98221 68628. One of the most active beach shacks of Anjuna beach. It's near the south end of the beach. It is at the end of the beach is where many meet, chill or just listen to music. In a reverse of the common dual pricing policies in India, where foreigners are charged highly inflated prices, there are reporrs that Curlie’s charge Indians an entrance fee whereas western tourists are not. 
15.57392573.7476365 The German bakery, Market Road, Montero Waddo, ☏ +91 90960 58775. A nice and relaxing place for breakfast, having a drink with friends or for some good quality bread and pastries. It's on the way to the flea market, you can't miss the German bakery sign where you have to turn. 
15.57932173.7474686 LaFranza, Market Road, Montero Waddo, ☏ +91 98905 64035. Excellent Kingfish, King prawns and specialities from the tandoori oven. Pool table and Internet cafe. 
 Munche's. a.k.a. Munchies corner is open 24 hours a day. A place to eat, have a drink, watch cable TV, meet people at night or find a list of upcoming parties. It's on the left side of the road, on the road to Vagator between main crossing (Starco junction) and Oxford Arcade. 
 Oasis. One of the most popular restaurants in Anjuna. It serves cheep food and has friendly staff. It's on the north side of the main road towards the beach from Starco junction. 
15.57594173.7402137 Shore Bar. Large menu and good food. People are nice and it's by the sea. 
15.57746773.7468388 Whole Bean (on the main road to the Anjuna flea market). Excellent place for lunch. Offering great tofu and other health foods. 
 Zuri. Next to the nightclub Paradiso, is a very nice place to go to eat. The views to the sea are beautiful and feels comfortable with the breeze. The menu is not the best, but has some unique options. 
Drink[edit]
Alcohol is cheaper all over Goa and is more freely available than most other places in the country, due to the relaxed taxes.
Beer is very common and is available from nearly all restaurants (German bakery is an exception) and many stores.

Carlsberg and Budweiser are also quite popular and easily available in and around Anjuna.
Fosters from Australia is also fairly common.
King's, a pilsner specific to Goa, as opposed to Kingfisher which is an Indian lager.
Kingfisher is the most common beer in Anjuna. It is available in large and small bottles, a large bottle usually costs ₹50-70 in a restaurant.
Good quality wine is not common in India and is generally not as good value as beer. Some restaurants especially the more expensive ones serve wine by the bottle or the glass. Bottles of wine can be purchased at Oxford Stores (just north of Starco Junction).
Although not as common as in the rest of the state, Fenny—a locally distilled liquor—is easily available in Anjuna. There are two varieties—from the Cashew fruit and the Coconut fruit. The Cashew Fenny is a hit with the locals but will leave quite a taste and smell in the mouth.
Regular spirits, like whiskey, rum, and vodka, are readily available at fairly decent prices.

 Michele's Cafe, La Vie En Rose (left road before flea market and before Banyan soul), ☏ +91 832 2274848, +91 9822388283. 9AM-6PM. The owner is a French lady. It is a French cafe known for its exquisite Qquiches and desserts.  Plat du jour/today special is also a plus like Chicken Normandie or Calamares Mediterranee.  Open for breakfast with fresh fruit juices and delicious bacon mushroom omelets, the seat out is in the garden on the loan surrounded by flowers and trees.  Also guest house with two specious rooms with attached bathroom and terrace and balcony. 
Sleep[edit]
There are many different places to stay in Anjuna (from hotel with swimming pool, to a room inside the family house), you'll find hotels, houses, and rooms almost everywhere, you just have to walk the streets with your backpack/luggage, and you'll be offered rooms.
Prices vary depending on the comfort, the commodities, the season, the duration of your stay, and your ability to bargain. To get cheaper prices, you should look in the south part, especially in St. Anthony's church area.

La Casita Cottages: - Road Opp. Baskin Robbins Ice Cream Shop
15.5752373.7410741 Florinda's Guest House, Anjuna Beach, ☏ +91 9890216520, florindagoa@gmail.com. Check-out: 11AM. A wonderful place to relax on the beach at "Florinda's Guest House". Beautiful rooms with attached bath and 24-hr hot water. And a lovely garden. Friendly people. 
15.58088973.7448332 Hill View Guest House (hill view guest house on MyIndianStay), Demello Vaddo, ☏ +91 98224 82035. Quite guest house on the slow of the hills of Anjuna 10 min walking distance from Anjuna Beach. 15 rooms which include occupancy for single, double and triple accommodation. Also A/c rooms available. Rooms with kitchen for long stay and 2 cottages are also available. All rooms have TV, fridge, attached bath with hot shower. ₹600. 
Martha's Breakfast Home. If budget is not a problem, this is a nice and friendly place to stay on the way to flea market (☏ +91 98224 2273365).
Villa Anjuna (on the road from StarCo Corner to Paradiso) is an excellent place to stay, but is slightly on the expensive side. Double A/C room would cost you ₹1000 or more per night, but the facilities are worth it. It is very safe, they have security 24 hours, the restaurant is also open 24 hours and the staff are really nice and friendly. The owner is also a very nice and polite man. The swimming pool area is really nice and clean and a good place to meet nice people.
15.5880973.7421753NOT EXISTING LISTING IMAGE Spazio Leisure Resort, Near Starco Junction, D’Mello Vaddo (between Starco and Anjuna Police Station), ☏ +919975597337, bookings@spazioleisureresort.in. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: noon. Spazio Leisure Resort is a beautiful boutique resort with Indo-Portuguese charm near Anjuna and Vagator beaches. All rooms have double/twin beds, LCD TV, minibar, AC, walk-in showers and private balcony overlooking the pool or gardens. If you want to treat yourself, go for the superior pool view room with bath tub. (updated Jun 2021)
Stay safe[edit]
Corrupt police[edit]
Around Anjuna/Vagator you may have encounter some corrupted policemen (or pretending to be policemen) trying to scare you to get bakshish. From illegal drug possession to driving without helmet/license, they will try to charge you with almost everything, even threatening to hit you with a bamboo stick. Their catchphrase is "if you help me, I will help you" and they ask you to help them with ₹500 to ₹5000. This kind of encounter is not very common, but you have to be aware it may happen almost anywhere (not inside restaurants, parties nor on the beach)

Robbery[edit]
There have been some cases of robbery in Anjuna, its best to not walk alone at night or to walk in out of the way places. Also keep your rooms locked there are thefts from rooms.

Traffic[edit]
Traffic can be heavy and chaotic in Anjuna especially on market day and in the peak season. Inexperience, drinking, drugs are issues to be aware of. Potholed roads, cows and dogs, speeding buses, lack of helmets, speed and inexperienced westerner motorbike riders are all hazards to contend with. Its perhaps not the best place to learn to ride here. It may be wise to know where medical help is available.

Mosquitoes[edit]
If you are staying a long time, a mosquito net is worth having. You can buy fancy ones at the markets or the German bakery. Oxford stores has ones for ₹450 and you can get them from the fabric shops near the Mapusa Market for ₹300 or bring one from home.

Scams[edit]
Beware of gem scams. These people hang around Anjuna and the surrounding cities and become your friend for a few days. Then they ask if you want to do business with them for their jewelry export business, and offer you a large amount of money to transport jewelry in your name to whatever country you're from as to save them taxes and such. They say that you will spend no money but somewhere along the line you'll have to cough up what they want. Research online for more details, but if you feel doubtful then don't do business.

Go next[edit]
Arambol - A traditional fisherman village in northern Goa. Location of Arambol Beach.
Chapora - Coastal village, location of Chapora Fort and Chapora beach.
Mapusa - Agrarian community close to many beaches in northern Goa. Site of the popular Mapusa Friday Market.
Panaji - Capital city of Goa
Vagator - Small village with the popular Vagator beach.





This city travel guide to Anjuna is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Anjuna&oldid=4852227"