

Saint Francis' Basilica, listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site
Rocca Maggiore
Piazza del Comune: Santa Maria sopra Minerva
Assisi is a small medieval town of about 28,000 people (2022) perched on a hill in Umbria, the heart of Italy. Famous as the birthplace of St. Francis, Assisi holds religious, historical, and artistic significance. Periodical exhibits and fairs enrich the visitor's experience.


Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
The closest train station is 3 km away from Assisi, in Santa Maria degli Angeli. Coming from Florence, you'll need to change trains at Terontola. Coming from Rome, change at Foligno. 
43.05889412.5850831 Assisi Train Station, Santa Maria degli Angeli (at the bottom of the hill, about three km from the centre of town). (updated May 2019)
Getting there: bus line "C" connects train station with the town centre.

By bus[edit]
Buses arrive from the nearby cities of Perugia (1 hr, €2.7), Patrignano, Bettona, Todi, Marsiano. Check timetables at BusItalia website[dead link].
43.0701312.619172 Bus stop, Piazza Giacomo Matteotti. (updated May 2019)

By car[edit]
Take the A1 freeway and exit at the SS75. Follow the signs to historical Assisi and park in one of the public lots just outside the city walls. Parking area "Park Matteotti" does cost a bit but is pretty easy to reach and is in a good place to explore the town on foot.

Get around[edit]
43°4′16″N 12°36′50″EMap of Assisi
Historical Assisi is very small and easily explored on foot. But go slowly, or the hilly streets will put you out of breath before you know it. During the hotter summer months take an occasional rest in one of the cool churches or enjoy an icecream break (or two). It is advisable to begin your tour at the top of the town (which is the oldest part), so you can enjoy the city going down the hill.

See[edit]
Definitely take the time to walk among Assisi's medieval houses and shops. Most of the cobblestone streets and alleys will take you to the basilica of St. Francis.
The basilica of St. Francis is only one of many beautiful churches in Assisi. The cathedral of San Rufino, the basilica of Santa Chiara, and the Chiesa Nuova are also worth a visit. Take the time to hike up to the top of the hill above Assisi and explore the castle - "La Rocca" - where Frederick Barbarossa spent his childhood. From here you can overlook the town and the valley below. Visit the tiny church of St. Stefano, go up a few stairs, and look back downwards for the most picturesque spot of this beautiful little town.

43.0747912.605721 Basilica of San Francesco d'Assisi. Basilica was completed in 1253. The walls and ceilings of the upper church are embellished with frescoes of the Giotto school; the lower sanctuary contains the tomb of St. Francis. It's a good idea to rent the audio guide to appreciate the artistic and historical significance of this unique church. Please be quiet as you visit this multi-level structure as it still is a place of prayer for many.   (updated May 2019)
 Treasury Museum of the Basilica of San Francesco (Museo del Tesoro della Basilica di San Francesco), Piazza San Francesco 1. 10:00-13.00; 14:00-17:30. Free admission. (updated May 2019)
43.0704312.617772 San Rufino Cathedral. It has probably the most beautiful façade of all the churches in town. If you have some time to spare visit the museum.   (updated May 2019)
 Assisi Diocesan Museum (Museo diocesano e cripta di San Rufino), Palazzo dei Canonici, Piazza San Rufino 3 (attached to San Rufino Cathedral). Mar-Oct: 10:00-13:00, 15:00-18:00. (updated May 2019)
Following Via San Rufino (walking down in front of the Cathedral) you arrive to Piazza del Comune, the center of the town. There is a small fountain known as the "lions fountain". There are two main attractions on the Piazza: the "Palazzo del Capitano del Popolo" with the clock tower and the beautiful church of Santa Maria Sopra Minerva (St. Mary over Minerva), with its impressive roman columns. Assisi, being an old roman town, had its own temple dedicated to Minerva, the goddess of wisdom. With the arrival of Christianity the temple was transformed into a Catholic church and the Virgin Mary was promoted above pagan wisdom. The church was completely remodeled in the early 1990s and stands in stark contrast to the exterior. In Piazza del Comune you find also the Tourist Information Center.
From the "Lions Fountain" find the street called "Corso Mazzini". Here you will find many interesting shops of all sorts. At the end of the street you'll find and archway and after that you will see the lovely St. Claire's Basilica, where the original crucifix, that spoke to Saint Francis, is found. There is a lovely piazza in front of the Church, with wonderful views of the valley. Morning and Evening prayer is beautiful here, with the choir of cloistered Poor Clare nuns singing.
Re-tracing your steps you can go back to Piazza del Comune, passing on your left a little street that takes you to "Chiesa Nuova", a very spiritual little church built over to what is said to be Francis' original home.
From Piazza del Comune you have two options to reach Saint Francis' Basilica:
a) the street to your right is "Via San Paolo", and it will eventually lead you to the Basilica. This is a slightly longer way to get there and not so crowded, sometimes there is no one around, even on busy days! After you walk a little on Via San Paolo turn to your left when you see some steps and a fresco on the wall, follow the steps down until you get to the small church of St. Stephen (Santo Stefano). This is a real jewel, not known to many and skipped by the majority of "running pilgrims". Even if for 5 minutes it is a must-see.
b) the street to your left from Piazza del Comune is called "Via Portica". This is the usual and shorter way to go to the Basilica of Saint Francis. There are plenty of shops. On your left you will eventually find the Metastasio theater, with a continual exhibit about St. Clare. After a short while you pass an archway and arrive to "Via San Francesco". A little walk and to your left you will see a little chapel called the "Oratorio dei Pellegrini" (the Pilgrim's Chapel). It only opens for a few hours during the day when it is open there is almost always Eucharistic adoration. Inside this room you will find some of the most beautiful frescos of the town. In this same street to your right you can find some very interesting museums.
At the end of the street you will find the Basilica of St. Francis, with everything to discover. Start at the upper Basilica. Make sure you make it to the lower church and down the stairs to the Tomb of Saint Francis. This is one of the most spiritually powerful places in Assisi.
When you finish your visit of the Basilica you will exit on the lower part, in front of Piazza San Francesco. Walk down the Piazza, cross the archway and walk down Via Frante Elia. When you arrive to the bottom of the street to your left you will see a big Church, San Pietro. This is another "must see" of the city that is many times ignored. Differently to other churches in town, the interior is more beautiful than the exterior.
After your visit cross "St Peter's Gate" and you will find a big parking lot and a bus stop. If you left your car at the top (Matteotti) you can take a bus back, or if not you can catch a bus to the bus station.
If you have more time, these are some hints:

43.06166712.6180563 San Damiano. The little church of San Damiano is outside the walls of the city, halfway down the hill, but easily accessible from Porta Nuova, near St. Clare's Basilica. According to the saint's biographers, it was here that St. Francis received his message "to rebuild the church." This is one of the most "franciscan" places in town and it is definitely worth the small detour from the centre. If you are staying in for some days they have a lovely 07:30 morning mass, with beautiful music.   (updated Mar 2019)
43.07025212.6145044 Santa Maria Maggiore Church, near "Piazza del Vescovado". In a little hidden angle of the town, a beautiful well kept Church (don't be cheated by its unassuming façade). Going down the hill a little look for the monastery of St Quirico. Eearly in the morning and at 18:00, the Poor Clare nuns have morning and evening prayer. The Poor Clares in Sta Chiara can be seen during prayers.   (updated Mar 2019)
 Oratorio San Francesco Piccolino. From Corso Mazzini you follow some little steps and arrive to a very little chapel where the legend says Francis was born. (updated Mar 2019)
43.07297212.6150835 Rocca Maggiore, info@assisisi.com. A lovely site with wonderful views. A good climb so be prepared for a walk. The structure has been restored and besides the wonderful architecture and the views you can also see an exhibition based on the Calendimaggio, the spring festival of the city.   (updated Mar 2019)
On the "back" of Piazza del Comune you can find a lovely and basically unknown area of the town, with beautiful houses, lovely views, some shrines for Our Lady and one or two cats having a nap. Look for the unconsecrated Church of Sta Maria delle Rose.
43.06358312.6515566 Eremo delle Carceri.   (updated Mar 2019)
 Chiesa di Santa Margherita (Church of Saint Margaret). Among the little streets in front of St Francis Basilica. You have lovely views of the Basilica from the small Piazza. (updated Mar 2019)
43.0738512.6073827 Indios Missionary Museum (MUMA). (updated May 2019)
 Gallery of Contemporary Art of the Pro Civitate Christiana (Galleria d’Arte Contemporanea della Pro Civitate Christiana), Via degli Ancajani 3. (updated May 2019)
Santa Maria degli Angeli[edit]
Santa Maria degli Angeli at the bottom of the hill - where the train station is. Visit the Basilica containing the Porziuncola, the tiny stone home of St. Francis and his followers, where the Saint died.

 Museum Porziuncola Santa Maria degli Angeli (Museo della Porziuncola), Piazza Porziuncola 1. 9-13/14,30-17. (updated May 2019)
Further away[edit]
Walk (or take a taxi or drive) the 4 km to Eremo delle Carceri, an hermitage in a steep mountain gorge east of Assisi, where St Francis came to pray and contemplate in the 13th century.
Do[edit]
 Sportoletti winery (on the way from Assisi to Spello through the hamlets of Viole and Capitan Loreto). M-Sa 08:00-13:00 14:30-17:30. Wine tasting where they offer lovely reds, a basic Assisi Rosso and their famous Villa Fidelia. 
Buy[edit]
The many shops display a variety of local arts and crafts, including paintings, sculptures, ceramics and reproductions of medieval weapons and tools. Embroidery and chocolate manufacturing are also typical of the area. Religious items are best purchased at the gift shop behind the lower level of St. Francis basilica. Don't let the shop keepers overcharge you!

Eat[edit]
Assisi[edit]
 Trattoria degli Umbri, Piazza del Comune 40, ☏ +39 075 812455. Closed Th. Simple home style renovated into a restaurant; central location. 
 Il Baccanale, Assisi centre, Via del Comune Vecchio 2 (near the Piazza Matteotti parking lot.). A beautiful wine shop offering wines from all over Italy, exotic coffee, sweets and preserves. 
 I monaci (near Teatro Metastasio). 
 Osteria Otello (in front of Chiesa Nuova). Good prices. 
 Finnegans Pub (in front of Piazza Matteoti). Very nice pizza, good prices. 
 Paradiso (on the road to San Damiano.). Nice to seat out in the summer. 
Santa Maria degli Angeli[edit]
In town you find several little ice cream and pizza shops, you need to look around for quality.

 Ristorante Basilica, Via Protomartiri Francescani 11 (opposite the apse of church), ☏ +39 0758044491. Closed Tu. Reliable family business well known among locals, delicious fried appetizer, pizza available for dinner. 
 Terra Umbra, Via Patrono d’Italia 10. The best gourmet shop for all Umbrian foods. Offers olive oil tasting, chocolate, cheese, cured meats, truffles. Pick up your picnic stuff here. 
 Tavola Rotonda (in a small back street near the Farmacia Comunale). A really "local" place, quite full all year around. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Ostello della Pace Assisi, Via di Valecchie, 177, ☏ +39 075 816767. 
 Agriturismo B&B Alla Madonna del Piatto, Via Petrata, 37 (7 km outside Assisi near Castello di Petrata), ☏ +39 075 8199050, letizia.mattiacci@libero.it. Check-in: 16:00, check-out: 10:00. Small, intimate B&B, all rooms with splendid views, fun hands-on cooking classes, quiet surroundings. €90/night. 
 Country House San Potente Assisi, Via San Potente, 14 (a few km from Assisi historic center), ☏ +39 075 812372, info@sanpotenteassisi.com. Check-in: 16:00, check-out: 10:00. A villa with six rooms on two floors. Two of the six apartments are on the first floor, and there is a small but cozy common room. The ground floor is the reception, while in the park is the Town House with two of its four apartments suitable for persons with disabilities. €30/40 average. 
 Hotel Berti, ☏ +39 075 813466. On Piazza San Pietro. 
 Grand Hotel Assisi. 150 rooms and 6 suites, all equipped with air conditioning, satellite TV, mini-bar, and telephone with through line for fax and personal computers and a cable link to the hotel's congress centre, allowing guests to watch live broadcasts of conference events filmed by closed circuit television. 
 Valle di Assisi Hotel Spa & Golf, Via S. Bernardino Da Siena, 116, 06081 Santa Maria degli Angeli PG (6 km from the center of Assisi), ☏ +39 075 8044580, info@vallediassisi.com. Country resort nestled on the hills with a panoramic view over Assisi. The hotel features rooms, suites and private apartments. In the private garden there are a pool and a golf course. (updated Dec 2018)
Go next[edit]
Perugia
Santa Maria degli Angeli at the bottom of the hill





This city travel guide to Assisi is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Assisi&oldid=4881427"