
Auli is a city in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. Auli is nestled in the lap of snow-capped peaks of Garhwal Himalayas, in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, near the religious shrine of Badrinath. At an altitude of 2,500 to 3,050 m above sea level, Auli’s slopes are flanked by coniferous and oak forests, which offer a panoramic view of mountains such as Nanda Devi and Mana Parbat.


Understand[edit]

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
For those travelling by air, the nearest airport is Jolly Grant, Dehradun, 17 km from Rishikesh, 273 km from Joshimath.

By train[edit]
Coming from any part of India, the nearest rail head is Haridwar 299 km from Auli. Catch a train to New Delhi Station. From New Delhi one can catch a train for Haridwar. It takes more than 7 hours to reach Haridwar (Shatabdi/JanShatabdi takes 6 hours).

By road[edit]
Auli is only a 13 km drive from Joshimath. State transport and Union buses play regularly between Joshimath and Rishikesh (253 km). Local Transport Union Buses and State Transport buses operate between Joshimath and Rishikesh (253 km), Haridwar (277 km), Dehradun (298 km) and Delhi (500 km). From Joshimath onwards, both bus and taxi services are available for Auli. Deluxe coaches can also be arranged with prior notice for the group of 15 people or more. If you are dropping at New Delhi and want to go by Bus then take a Metro Train to ISBT - Kashmere Gate. From there one can catch Bus of DTC/UPSRTC/UTC. Only problem is that there are no fixed timetable and every person in charge will promise you many things. Don't fall in the trap of private tour operator. They all will say bus is just leaving and what not. So be prepared for confusion. You may loose your temper. Check the bus condition before boarding as road from New Delhi to Haridwar is long [7-8 hrs] and some patches are in very bad conditions, comfortable seats are must. Once you are at Haridwar stay overnight and catch a bus leaving bus stand opposite railway station at around 3:30AM. This bus is the only way to reach Joshimath in 10 or more hours if you are planning to catch Cable Car (last ride 3:30PM). Other option is to book Car from the Car Union Off opposite Bus stand they normally charge ₹3000 or more for Joshimath Dropping for Ambassador which is best for 4 people. Whether in bus or car please sit on right hand side window for magnificent view, road to Joshimath runs parallel to holy river Ganga and Alaknanda which falls on right side.

Get around[edit]
By cable car[edit]
The most popular way to drop in at Auli is by the cable car service which runs for 3 km. This cable holds a record of longest in Asia with total length of 4.15 km. Its lower tower is at 1906 m from MSL and the upper tower is at 3016 m. It takes around 15 minutes to complete this ride at a speed of 5 m/sec. Charges are ₹1000 for round trip.
The chair lift operates from Tower 8 of ropeway all the way down to GMVN Ski Resort. Charges are ₹500
for round trip.

See[edit]
Gurson Bugyal - around 3 km from Auli, Gurso Bugyal or Gorson Bugyal is a spectacular meadow surrounded by dense forest of oaks and conifers. Situated at an elevation of 3,056 m, the high-altitude grassland is a brilliant green carpet in summer and a snow-covered magical land in winter. It's a good trek for beginners and offers spectacular views of Nanda Devi, Trishul and Dron Parvat peaks. This place is only about 1.5 km away from the last ropeway tower in Auli.
Chattrakund -  Chattrakund is at a distance of 4 km from Auli – just one km beyond Gurson bugyal. Situated as an altitude of 3,300 m, this small lake is surrounded by verdant greenery and this place offers panoramic views of the surrounding mountains. Visitors are enthralled by the picturesque settings and tranquility of this place,
Auli Lake - The highest artificial lake in the world, it provides a serene and calm atmosphere. The flawless turquoise lake bordered by lush green slopes, looks picture-perfect and can be accessed through the cable car. In winter, when snow carpets the grass, the lake shines like a jewel embedded in the white. Located approximately 15 km from Auli, it is a small village known for natural hot-water spring and temple. Explore the traditional handicrafts of the region here and feel at home among the warm local residents
Tapovan - approximately 15 km from Auli, it is a small village known for natural hot-water spring and temple. Explore the traditional handicrafts of the region here and feel at home among the warm local residents.
16 km from Joshimath and accessible by a good motorable road is the ski resort of Auli. The season extends from January to March, during this time skiing festivals and the National Championships are held. The Auli slopes, descending from 3049 to 2915 m, are flanked by conifers and oaks, which cut wind velocity. You get a 180-degree view of Himalayan peaks, which include Nanda Devi (7817 m), Kamet (7756 m), Mana Parvat (7273 m) and Dunagiri (7066 m).
A 500 m long ski-lift and an 800 m long chair-lift link the upper and lower slopes, and snow beaters and snow-packing machines maintain the smoothness of the slopes. Skiers can enjoy almost 20 km of virgin slopes, which provide excellent opportunities for cross-country, slalom and down-hill skiing events. 
Bring woollen clothing, cap, socks, dark glasses, gloves, mufflers, pullovers, wind-proof jacket, gum/snow boots and a torch light. At Auli where the temperatures drop to as low as -8° C in winters, although it is moderately cold in the summers. 
Joshimath - Joshimath is an ancient town settled in 8th century AD. This town is 10 km before the Auli hill station and is an important town for the Indian Army. Joshimath Cantonment is one of the important military stations of Indian Army, present in Uttarakhand. In winters, when Badrinath become inaccessible by tourists, the idol of Badri Vishal resides in the Narsingh Temple of Joshimath.   

Do[edit]
Training courses in skiing: training courses are conducted in modules of 7 and 14 days. Training is imparted to the enrolled persons in modern skiing techniques by qualified instructors from Skiing and Tourist Resorts, Auli and Indian Institute of Skiing and Mountaineering, Gulmarg.
Best option for those who want to learn basic skiing and save money enrol with the GMVNL basic course as the cost of the package is inclusive of chair-lift (₹100 return) and accommodation (better than the ₹750 wooden hut) and food (casual eating will cost ₹60/pp each time) and gear.

Trekking - From Auli, one can trek up to Himalayan peaks such as Nanda Devi, Kamat, Mana Parvat and Dunagiri. Joshimath to Auli is about 14 km. Walking on snow-laden paths in winters or lush alpine meadows during summers, the offbeat trails of Auli are an unparalleled attraction for trekkers and nature lovers. The green expanse of Gurson (Gorson) bugyal meadow is just 3 km from Auli and it connects with the trekking trail to Kuari Pass.


Eat[edit]
There is a government-run small café where you can find coffee, tea or some snacks like Maggi Noodles. Other than this, there are hardly any eating places nearby. Even at this café the prices are highly inflated mainly because there are few modes of transport to move the stock from Joshimath.

 The Alpine Restaurant (Alpine Restaurant). The Alpine Restaurant creates an inviting atmosphere, perfect for both intimate dinners and casual gatherings with the option of open-air dining overlooking the mighty mountain. Whether you're dining solo, with a loved one, or with friends, our restaurant provides a tranquil escape from the outside world. (updated Sep 2023)
Sleep[edit]
Alpine cottages and log huts prove to be a more exciting choice. Also available are catering services, adequate heating arrangements, a round-the-clock hot water supply and, of course, warm hospitality, all of which ensure a comfortable and memorable stay. The above modes of accommodation are supplemented by a wide network of luxurious yet affordable hotels and rest-houses all along the route (at Dehradun, Rishikesh, Devprayag, Srinagar, Rudraprayag, Gauchar, Karanprayag, Nand-Prayag, Pipalkoti and Joshimath).

Gmvn Ski Resort

Royal village, Auli

 BlackBerry Cottages & Resort Auli (Blackberry Cottages), Jhangriya Band Near TV Tower, Auli Road (5-10 min drive from Joshimath), ☏ +91 9555934279, info@blackberrycottagesauli.com. Check-in: 1:00 PM, check-out: 11:00 AM. Blackberry Cottage and Resort, Auli offers options of A-shaped cottages and Family Suite. The cottages and rooms are well furnished with comfortable rooms offering panoramic views of the mountains and easy access to the skiing slopes. 4500. (updated Sep 2023)
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
Badrinath, one of the most holy towns in Hinduism, is only 57 km (35 mi) north of Auli.
Valley of Flowers
Joshimath
Mana Village





This city travel guide to Auli is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Auli&oldid=4761871"