
Bad Säckingen is a magnificent little city located in the very southern part of Germany. For tourists, it is ideally located at the southern end of the Black Forest and Switzerland is just a few minutes walk away, crossing over the lovely old wooden bridge. Nearby attractions include Basel, Freiburg and Konstanz.
The town is also known as the town of the trumpeter, due to the book by Joseph Victor von Scheffel, "Der Trompeter von Säkkingen".


Get in[edit]
Map of Bad Säckingen

The place can easily be reached by car as well as public transport.

By car[edit]
from the north: Travel on the Autobahn A5 to Basel, then follow the A98 and B34 east
from the south: Follow the signs to either Basel or Zurich. Then travel to Stein in Switzerland and cross over the new bridge.
from the west: From Basel follow the A98 and B34
from the east: From Waldshut follow the A98 and B34 westwards
By train[edit]
There is a big intercity train station in Basel which can be reached easily from most major cities in the western part of Germany. Be sure to switch trains at Basel Badischer Bahnhof (not at Basel SBB). From there you can catch connecting trains to Bad Säckingen that run on a regular basis. Coming from the east (e.g. from Munich), you can usually travel via Ulm (possibly changing trains in Singen or Ravensburg). From Ulm on it will usually be a local train, but be prepared to watch some nice scenery on your way to Bad Säckingen. Make sure to sit on the left side (in running direction) of the train, so you can have a nice view of the river Rhine. Check for up to date fare information at DB.

By plane[edit]
Conveniently located airports are Basel/Mulhouse and Zurich.

Get around[edit]
Being a small city, you can reach most main attractions in the inner city by foot. Renting a bicycle might be a good idea to venture into the lovely suburbs like Wallbach or Obersäckingen, that can be reached in a few minutes. There are also public buses running to the suburbs. Furthermore, there is a local bus, the city-bus.

See[edit]
The main attractions are all conveniently located in the city centre. You should definitely have a look at the St. Fridolinsmuenster, the old Wooden Bridge, and the romantic Trompeterschloss in a nice park.

47.5528717.9494471 St. Fridolinsmuenster. The Gothic cathedral in the middle of town was built around 1300 after a fire had destroyed most of the city. It is named after St. Fridolin, the patron of the city. The bones of St. Fridolin are stored in a shrine in the cathedral and are worshipped as relics. 
47.5513897.9513892 Covered Wooden Bridge. The bridge connecting the town to the small city of Stein in Switzerland is another main attraction. It is closed for cars (as is most of the inner city), so you can take a unhurried walk across to the other side of the River, enjoying the magnificent view from the bridge. The bridge is famous for being the longest covered wooden bridge in Europe. 
 Trumpeter's Palace. Bad Säckingen is also known as the Trumpeter's city, because one of the most popular German author in the 19th century, Joseph Victor von Scheffel, wrote a book on a trumpeter and the story is set in Säckingen. The story itself is quite greasy, but very romantic. You can find signs hinting to the trumpeter (and to the Kater Hidigeigei, which is an early ancestor of Garfield, another figure from one of Scheffel's books) all over town, the main one being the Trumpeter's palace, conveniently located in the so-called Schlosspark (Palace Park). The Trumpeter's Palace also contains one of the most complete collections of trumpets in Germany that is open to the public. 
Do[edit]
Walk to the lovely Bergesee
Swim at the Aqualon
There are a couple of nice restaurants around town. However, regarding late-night entertainment, the city has not much to offer.

Events[edit]
Brückenfest
Shrovetide
Buy[edit]
You can buy 'Rheinkiesel', sweets looking like small stones from the Rhine, at bakeries in town. There you can also get sweets with an image of the Trompeter von Saeckingen on it, which give a nice souvenir.

Eat[edit]
There are lots of nice little restaurants next to the central square of town, the Muensterplatz, next to the St. Fridolins-Muenster. There are also some other places spread out across the city.

 Zum Schwarzen Walfisch, Münsterplatz 30. Cosy diner serving traditional food. Main course €12-15. (updated Oct 2015)
Drink[edit]
At most restaurants you can also just have a drink and many have a bar, where you can relax while sipping on one of the great local beers.

Sleep[edit]
For a listing of hotels, pensions and bed & breakfasts, visit the town tourist website[dead link]

 Hotel Schweizerblick, Schneckenhalde 1, ☏ +49 7761 92520. 
 Hotel St. Fridolin, Hasenrütte 4, ☏ +49 7761 931100. 
Stay safe[edit]
Note that crossing the Covered Wooden Bridge (and thus the border to or from Switzerland) at night is only allowed if you have accommodation in Bad Säckingen or a nearby town or village.

Go next[edit]
Rheinfelden
Laufenburg
Day trips[edit]
Nearby attractions, that can be visited easily in a day if you base yourself in Saeckingen are: Basel, Konstanz, Zurich, Alsace, Schaffhausen with the Rheinfall, Triberg and Freiburg.







This city travel guide to Bad Säckingen is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.




This article or section may benefit from translation from the article on German Wikivoyage. If you can help translate, please do!





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Bad_Säckingen&oldid=4608934"