
Beach Haven[dead link] is a resort town and summer colony on Long Beach Island (LBI) in Ocean County, New Jersey, with a permanent population of about 1,200 (2019).


Understand[edit]
Beach Haven is a rather affluent community, although it is certainly more affordable than other places on LBI. Much like the beginnings of the town, a majority of the homes are summer homes. You may notice that there is an abundance of newly constructed homes in Beach Haven. This is due in part to Superstorm Sandy, which in late 2012 brought a historic storm surge, flooding, and damaging winds. The community has all but healed from the damage.

History[edit]
The area of what is now Beach Haven was a desolate, treeless barrier island. Using wooden canoes, Lenape natives harvested clams for food and gathered shells for trading and jewelry. Much later, colonists occasionally set up rudimentary fishing and whaling camps, and farmers let their cattle graze the sand dunes. A few small boarding houses were set up in the area to house wealthy sportsmen who visited with their families to hunt and fish. A small community began to form, which was aided by railroads reaching down to the mainland. Wealthy families from Philadelphia built summer cottages, many of which were inspired by Quaker architecture. Later, larger Victorian mansions were constructed. Because of the limited access to the island, the vast majority of these were summer residences, leaving the town mostly uninhabited in the off-season. The Engleside Hotel, on Engleside Avenue where the Veterans Memorial Park now stands.
Finally, in 1886, the Pennsylvania Railroad company constructed a railroad across Manahawkin Bay and down the island, connecting Beach Haven (and other early LBI communities) with the mainland for the first time. This led to a construction boom, and much of the town's notable historic buildings were completed. An automobile drawbridge was completed in 1914. A few years later, a storm wiped out the railroad, which ceased operation. Sadly, many of these buildings have been lost to history, destroyed in coastal storms or bulldozed. A notable example was the Engleside Hotel, which was one of the most decorative and beautiful Victorian hotels ever built, an icon for the community. It was razed during WWII. Beach Haven's Victorian architecture remains prominent within the Beach Haven Historic District, stretching across most of the town east of Bay Ave.

Orientation[edit]
Beach Haven is near the southern end of Long Beach Island. It is a small community, taking up 2 miles of the 18-mile-long island. The main shopping district is on Bay Avenue (CR 607). This is where you'll find most of the hustle and bustle. Bay Avenue divides Beach Haven into the "bay side" and "beach side." You'll hear locations described as on these two sides. On the bay side is the Beach Haven Historic District. On Atlantic Avenue there are a few beach resorts, hotels, and condominiums. The bay side of Beach Haven features three marinas and boat docks for fishing charters and private ventures, and some retail shops. Most of Beach Haven is a high-density suburban landscape.

Economy[edit]
Beach Haven, like most Jersey Shore towns, relies almost completely on tourism. Although not as prevalent as it used to be, the fishing industry is also an important part of the economy. Nearly all of the retail workers live off the island. Beach Haven From Engleside Ave, looking towards the bay.
Climate[edit]
Beach Haven has a humid subtropical climate with hot, moderately humid summers, cool winters, and year-around precipitation.  During the summer months in Beach Haven, a cooling afternoon sea breeze is present on most days, but episodes of extreme heat and humidity can occur with heat index values over 95 °F (35 °C). During the winter months, episodes of extreme cold and wind can occur with wind chill values below 0 °F (-18 °C). The average seasonal (November-April) snowfall total is 12-18 inches (300-460 mm), and the average snowiest month is February which corresponds with the annual peak in nor'easter activity.

Get in[edit]
39°33′40″N 74°14′34″WMap of Beach Haven

Getting to Beach Haven is a simple process. Coming from Route 72, cross over the causeway and once on the island, make a right (South) on Long Beach Blvd. Beach Haven is 3–5 miles down the road.
You can get to Route 72 via the Garden State Parkway or Route 9. You can also follow it in from Four Mile Circle in Pemberton.
Another option is to take the pedestrian-only Beach Haven Ferry, which departs from Tuckerton Seaport on the mainland. It's perfect for day trips.

Get around[edit]
Most people get around by car, bike or walking. Public transport is not widely used here, but the LBI Shuttle wave-down service runs 18 miles along the entire island, charging a small fee. Many use Uber or Lyft ride-hailing services as well. Be advised that Beach Haven's roads become rather busy each Saturday and Sunday as these are the changeover days for vacation rentals. Beach Haven is small enough that you can walk to and from most destinations in under 20 minutes, or less than 10 minutes by bike.
Beach Haven doesn't have a gas station, but there is one just north in Spray Beach.
Beach Haven provides ample biking infrastructure like racks and bike lanes. If you are under 18, by law you must wear a bike helmet, but this rule is not well enforced. It's always smart to stay safe, though! Beach Haven roads can be quite chaotic at times. Don't have a bike? No worries. The Boardwalk, a bike rental shop with an ice cream parlor and beach store attached, is located at 2306 S Bay Ave, at the southern end of Beach Haven.
If you have disabilities, the town provides free beach wheelchairs at the Centre Street Beach Pavillion, which can also be delivered to where you're staying.

See[edit]
 Museum of New Jersey Maritime History, Dock Road and West Avenue Beach Haven, NJ, ☏ +1 609-492-0202, info@njmim.org. 
 Long Beach Island Historical Association, Eangleside and Beach Avenue. 
Do[edit]
 Mr. Tee's Arcade, Engleside and Bay Avenue. Mr. Tee's is a classic arcade that is lots of fun for the family. 
 Fantasy Island Amusements, 320 Seventh Street. Fantasy Island is a Victorian-themed amusement park that is great for families. They have an arcade, carnival games, and rides, including a Ferris wheel. They also offer a food court with classic choices and an ice cream stand. You won't find any large roller coasters or thrill rides, although the pirate ship and drop tower are pretty fun. Fantasy Island is the only amusement park on LBI, so you'll see kids and teens here. (updated Jun 2020)
Buy[edit]
 Cool Beans Gourmet Coffee Shop, Bay Village 9th and Bay Ave.. 
 Country Kettle Chowda, 9th and Bay Ave.. 
 Coconuts, Schooner's Wharf - 325 9th Street. 
 The Coffee Bouteaque, Schooners Wharf - 325 9th Street. 
 Leo's Ice Cream Company, Silver Sun Mall - Third and North Bay Ave.. 
 Pearl Street Market, 229 Pearl Street. 
Eat[edit]
39.564688-74.2389991 The Chicken or the Egg (Chegg) (near the corner of 2nd St. and N Bay Ave), ☏ +1 609 492-FOWL (3695), info@492fowl.com. Su-Th 8AM-10PM, F Sa 8AM-11PM. Chicken or the Egg is famous for its wings, which many have called the best in Jersey. The Chegg was featured on Travel Channel's Man v. Food when Jack Riegel tried the Ludicrous Wings. There's a quirky atmosphere, great service, and a fairly-priced, varied menu. $15 for a decent meal and drink. (updated Jun 2020)
 Buckalew's Restaurant and Tavern, 101 N. Bay Ave.. Claimed "A Jersey Shore Legend", folks have been eating at Buckalew's for over a century. There is a fairly priced menu, great service, and multiple dining areas.  They also offer live music and entertainment.  Buckalew's has a great family atmosphere, but once it hits night time the bar is a lot of fun. 
 [dead link] Engleside Inn - The Leeward Room, 30 Engleside Avenue. The Leeward Room is only one of the three restaurants the Engleside Inn offers.  If you are looking for a more formal dining experience then the Leeward Room is the right choice.  They offer a regular dining menu, a children's menu, a wine list, and a martini list.  Prices are a little high. 
 [dead link] Engleside Inn - Sushi Bar and Lounge, 30 Engleside Avenue. The Sushi Bar and Lounge at Engleside Inn offers an extensive sushi menu, whether you are new to sushi or a sushi connoisseur they will have something for you.  At night time the bar comes alive and they offer musical entertainment. 
 [dead link] Engleside Inn - The Sand Bar, 30 Engleside Ave.. The Sand Bar is the more relaxing and casual dining option.  On sunny days, The Sand Bar is a great place to go with friends and enjoy a nice drink in the sunshine.  It is fairly priced and a very friendly atmosphere. 
 The Gables, 212 Centre Street. The Gables is a refurbished antique home that has been turned into a fantastic upscale restaurant. They offer two menus: dinner and brunch.  Reservations for this fabulous dining experience should be made far in advance. 
 Panzone's Pizza and Pasta, 1106 North Bay Ave. Beach Haven, NJ. Panzone's Pizza and Pasta is your classic Italian restaurant.  Their menu offers everything Italian from pizza and calamari to pasta and classic chicken dishes.  Prices are moderate and it is a nice, casual eating experience. Panzone's is the go-to pizza place on the island, which is why they were named "Best Pizza on LBI" from Inside Jersey/NJ.com in June 2010. (updated Jun 2020)
 Sea Shell Resort and Beach Club - Breakfast on the Beach, 10 South Atlantic Avenue. A one-of-a-kind breakfast on the beach. As you can see from its name, you can enjoy a freshly made breakfast while sitting sea side.  For the early risers of the Jersey Shore they open at 7:30AM, and they serve until 11:30AM for those who enjoy sleeping in. 
 Sea Shell Resort and Beach Club - The Palm Tree Restaurant, 10 South Atlantic Avenue. More of an upscale dining experience at the Sea Shell Club.  They have fresh fish dishes along with a myriad of other selections.  Prices are a little expensive but definitely worth it.  They also offer a wine list. 
 Sea Shell Resort and Beach Club - The Palm Grill, 10 South Atlantic Avenue. A relaxed pool-side restaurant.  They have wraps, sandwiches, fish sandwiches, and a lot of little snacks to eat while lounging pool side. 
Drink[edit]
 The Shell Beach Club and Tiki, 10 South Atlantic Avenue NJ. Right on the water. It is a relaxed atmosphere and some of the biggest bands in Ocean County play there.  The Tiki Bar is a mini escape to the tropical islands.  This is a great place to go with friends. 
 The Shell Nightclub, 10 South Atlantic Avenue. A night club with five bars and an extended dance floor.  It is considered the place to be in LBI to mingle and meet new people. 
Sleep[edit]
There are many privately-owned vacation rentals available. However, most of their listings require a minimum week's stay. Consider also checking other vacation rental sites such as Vrbo and Airbnb.
 [dead link] Coral Seas Ocean Front Motel, 21 Coral Street. 
 The Gables, 212 Centre Street. 
 Sea Shell Resort and Beach Club, 10 South Atlantic Avenue. 
 Windward Manor Inn, 200 South Atlantic Avenue. 
 Engleside Inn, 30 Engleside Avenue. 
 The Island Guest House Bed and Breakfast Inn, 207 3rd Street. 
 Magnolia House, 215 Centre Street. 
 Victoria Guest House Bed and Breakfast, 126 Amber Street. 
Go next[edit]







This city travel guide to Beach Haven is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Beach_Haven&oldid=4604186"