

Camel Rock
Bermagui (pronounced burmuh-GYOO-ee) is a peaceful fishing village of 1,500 people (2016) in the Sapphire Coast region of New South Wales.

Horseshoe Bay Beach in Bermagui

Understand[edit]
Bermagui is known for its beautiful beaches, forested hinterland and excellent fishing. It is also the location of the Four Winds Festival which is held in March.

Get in[edit]
36°25′47″S 150°4′0″EMap of Bermagui
From A1, turn onto Tourist Drive 9 until you arrive at Bermagui.

Get around[edit]
Like most small towns in Australia, the best way to get around is by foot for short distances and by car for places further afield (such as the beaches in the north). A bicycle is also a great way to get around as there are many bike lanes and quiet roads to ride on.

See[edit]
 Montreal Goldfields. Located approximately 7 km north Bermagui, Montreal Goldfields offers a great outing for families, coach tour groups and individual sightseers. Follow boardwalks through the beautiful native forest, re-grown since the days of the gold-rush moonscape. Peer down the vertical mineshafts, secured for safe public access. Time has brought back to life a forest of tree ferns, eucalypts and orchids, inhabited by sugar gliders, possums, lizards and diverse bird life. (updated Jul 2015)
-36.451111149.9419441 Biamanga National Park, Mumbah Creek Falls Rd. A very significant cultural site for First Nations peoples.   (updated May 2024)
Do[edit]
Beaches, lakes and pools[edit]
The Blue Pool
There are a number of quiet and sometimes secluded beaches, lakes, pools and other unique coastal landscapes in and around Bermagui.

Beaches[edit]
Horseshoe Bay Beach: families and children love this seasonally patrolled beach. Rocks at either end provide great exploring and snorkelling and sometimes meeting with a local seal.
Moorheads Beach and Haywards Beach are long beaches stretching from Bermagui to Camel Rock. Beside the beach, there is a now disused old road which makes for leisurely walking with bird watching.
Camel Rock Surf Beach is a well-known surfing spot and offers wonderful photographic opportunities.
Beares Beach, a short stroll south of the Blue Pool, is a great beach for surfing. Dogs are also allowed off the lead.
Cuttagee Beach is a popular surf beach.
Armands Beach is a clothing-optional beach.
Lakes[edit]
Wallaga Lake - an area of outstanding natural beauty with special significance for the Aboriginal people of the area. Enjoy a myriad of water activities (e.g. kayaking, windsurfing) or simply spend time enjoying the pace and the black swans.
Pools[edit]
-36.42958150.083811 Blue Pool. Iconic natural rock pool at the base of the cliff on Scenic Drive.  There are actually two of them, one shallow and sheltered from the waves, the other deeper with the odd wave crashing over.  Spectacular views up and down the coastline including views to Montague Island.  Bring snorkeling gear and spot the plentiful fish inside as well.  Free to enter, and there's a shower/toilet block in the carpark, but parking is quite limited. (updated Jan 2024)
Fishing[edit]
Bermagui is famous for its deep sea and game fishing – including yellow fin tuna and marlin – and estuary fishing in the surrounding rivers and lakes.

Festivals and fares[edit]
Bermagui has a number of festivals and fares held in March every year.

Four Winds Festival - held every second Easter (March) in an outdoor amphitheatre, 9 km south of Bermagui.
Sculpture on the Edge - held in March each year, includes a public symposium, exhibitions of large sculptures on Endeavour Point headland, Horseshoe Bay Beach & Dickenson Park and an exhibition of smaller sculptures in the Bermagui Community Centre.
Bermagui Seaside Fair - held on the second Saturday in March each year attracts around 10,000 people. It includes a traditional Blessing of the Fleet ceremony, fancy dress street parade, over 100 market stalls, carnival, sandcastle competition, helicopter joy flights over the scenic coastline, music and entertainment on two stages, quality arts and crafts and photographic exhibitions, pet pageant, kid's novelty events, fireworks spectacular and more.
Buy[edit]
 Bermagui Homemade Market, Dickinson Park, Lamont Street. Held on the last Sunday of each month at Dickinson Park, Lamont Street, from 8:30AM to 12:30PM. Specialises in handmade, homemade and local produce. (updated Jul 2015)
Eat[edit]
Drink[edit]
 Bermagui Beach Hotel, 10 Lamont St, ☏ +61 2 6493 4206, booking@bermaguibeachhotel.com.au. A classic Australian coastal pub with views over Horseshoe Bay, this place is packed with locals drinking schooners of beer on the veranda. (updated Jul 2015)
Sleep[edit]
There are hotels, motels and caravan parks in Bermagui. If you have a camper van, you will find most parking spots do not allow vans to stay overnight. However, there are a number of spots near Camel Rock Surf Beach that you could stay at trouble-free if you arrive late at night and moved on early in the morning.

 South Coast Holiday Park Bermagui. This park is opposite Horseshoe Bay Beach with many sites having views of the Bay and Mt. Gulaga. You can park your van here, or there are areas for camping. Bookings would be essential around Christmas and New Year periods. (updated Jul 2015)
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
If you are heading north, be sure to visit the historical towns of Central Tilba and Tilba Tilba. If you are heading south, be sure to visit Tathra, a stunning beachside town.






This city travel guide to Bermagui is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Bermagui&oldid=4878961"