Beypore is well known for the boat building industry
Fishermen in Beypore

Beypore or Beypur is a small beach town and port in the state of Kerala, India. It is in Kozhikode District.

Beypore Pulimoottu

Understand[edit]
Beypore is a beautiful beach and it has one of the oldest ports in Kerala from where trading was done to the Middle East. Beypore is famous for building wooden ships, called dhows or urus in the Malayalam language. These ships are usually bought by Arab merchants for trading, fishing and now used as a tourist ships. TASARA creative hand weaving centre in north Beypore attracts visitors and students from all around the world. Chaliyar Puzha which is the fourth longest river in the Kerala state flows through this village.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
Beypore nearest is karipur an International airport and most airlines in India has flights. Air-India also operates flights from Middle Eastern countries to Kozhikode. From Kozhikode airport (Karipur) it is only a 40-minute drive and costs US$10-15 - 14 km.
Kozhikode (Calicut) is connected to Mumbai (Bombay) by daily flights operated by Air India.
It is possible to land at Kochi International Airport and catch train or taxi to Bypore.
Other options are Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum), Chennai, Coimbatore, Bangalore and Mumbai airports coupled with a train or flight to Kozhikode, followed by a taxi ride.
Emirates Airlines flies daily from Dubai, United Arab Emirates to Kozhikode.
Kozhikode is the major gateway for northern Kerala expats to the Middle East. Air India Express has its one of the hubs in Calicut International Airport. Qatar Airways, Emirates, Etihad, RAK airlines, and Oman Airways operate there as well.
Sri Lankan Airways flies to Colombo
By train[edit]
Beypore is accessible from Kochi (Cochin), Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum), Coimbatore, Chennai, Mangalore, Bangalore, Mumbai (Bombay), New Delhi and Kolkata by train. The nearest railway station is Feroke which is 4 km away. The main train station is Kozhikode is 9 km away.
There are four direct trains between Calicut (Kozhikode) and Madras (Chennai), each taking 12-18 hours for one-way travel.
Kozhikode to Mumbai: There are a handful of direct trains connecting Bombay (Mumbai) with Calicut (Kozhikode) via the picturesque Konkan Railway route. Typically, these trains take about 24 hours to cover around 1200 km between Bombay (Mumbai) and Calicut (Kozhikode).
There are plenty of trains between Feroke or Calicut (Kozhikode) and Cochin (Kochi) and Trivandrum (Thiruvananthapuram). Without reserved seats, the tiring experience of traveling in crowded unreserved compartments awaits. In India train reservation is easy. There are no additional charges when booking at counters. But there will be nominal reservation charges of less than US$1 always. Check Indian Railway[dead link].

By bus[edit]
There are bus services operating from Mangalore, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, Bangalore and Coimbatore to Kozhikode.

By road[edit]
Kozhikode is connected to Mangalore, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, Bangalore and Coimbatore by road.
It is a pleasure to drive from Bangalore to Beypore through Gundulpet and Sulthan Battery. But in the small stretch of jungle there are wild elephants and moving in late hours in a small vehicle is not advised.
The Bangalore-Mysore-Gundulpet-Sultan Battery-Kalpetta-Kozhikode route is fantastic. This alternative route to travel to Thrissur from Bangalore avoids the reputedly deteriorated Salem route.

Get around[edit]
Many places of attractions are near by one another so you could walk between them.

By bus[edit]
There is no local bus service in Beypore.  You can rely on autorickshaws, which are very cheap and reliable.

By autorickshaw[edit]
This is a cheap way of transport between attractions.

By taxi[edit]
Local taxis are also available at good rates. Normally, taxis are not needed unless you plan to go way out of the city. If you want to move around in city, autos and buses are good enough. Taxis usually charge a flat charge and do not operate on meter.

By car[edit]
There are many  rental companies offering cars with drivers or self-drive

See[edit]
 Beypore Beach. A beautiful beach which holds the main attraction here. 
 Beypore Harbour. If you love Malabar cost marine life, you should visit here during early mornings. You can see the busy life of fishermen. Also wide variety of fishes. 
11.158375.80581 Beypore Lighthouse. Beypore Port historically had  trade links with Europe, Arabia and other ports on the Indian coast. It was also the base port for Laccadive group of Islands (Androth, Agatti, Kavaratti, Suhelipar and Kalpeni) and continues even now to be the base for Machine Cum Sailing vessels of Lakshadweep. The lighthouse used as a navigation object for sea vessels.   
 Beypore Port. An ancient port which have regular services to Lakshadweep islands. 
 Cheerppalam Kadavu, B.C.Road, Beypre (1 km). Huge fishing boats and several other types of vessels carrying sand and other material can be seen together here. (updated Aug 2015)
 Dolphin's Point. 15 minutes from the town centre is a place called Dolphin's Point, where one can see dolphins playing in the sea of an early morning. But you have to walk from main road terminus around 2 km. Stone laid down into sea around 2 km long. You can call it a stone pier. 
 Kadalundi. bird sanctuary, boating 
 Meenchanda. Samudhiri royal family's fort that now in NSS high school. 
 Thiruvachira Kulam. A beautiful pond near a Hindu temple. 
 Traditional boat (Urus) building yard. A part in the mouth of Beypore river, a road terminus, traditional boat(Urus)-building yard, old port, fishing harbour. 
Do[edit]
Learn the traditional handweaving techniques which is world renowned. TASARA -an Institution dedicated to creative weaving, is in Beypore. Founded in 1989, Tasara (weaver's shuttle in Sanskrit) is an extension of Spider Weavers, which was established in 1977. The Centre endeavors to deliver a contemporary touch to this age old form of art, by bringing together artists and weavers in an inspiring ambience, enabling both to break through the limitations of their own mediums. Check their official website for more detail [1]

 Walk into the Sea. The Beypore Pulimoott is a 1-km walkway into the sea. The walk is beautifully tiled and insufficiently lighted. Extremely crowded except in the early morning. (updated May 2015)
 Drive into the sea, Chaliyam pulimoott. Board your vehicle into the Jankar and cross the Chaliyar river to the village of Chaliyam.  You can drive one km into the sea on Chaliyar pulimoott road.  Too many vehicles are there, except if you come early in the morning. (updated May 2015)
Buy[edit]
Uru: Model Vessel  - Today, not many vessels are launched from Beypore and the artisans have taken to crafting little wooden models of their gigantic masterpieces. These four inch to eight foot 'Model Vessels' crafted out of teak wood would cost you anything from US$2-700.
Marine shops - You can get fresh and used marine vessel parts from this city shops. But you should be good in bargaining.

Eat[edit]
Malabar cuisine is quite popular among gourmands. The mildly flavoured, gently cooked Malabar Biriyanis are a must eat when visiting Beypore. The chicken is cooked tender, the rice flaky and delicately spiced with the right portions of condiments, to leave the taste lingering for long.
In seafood, mussels are a favourite. A concoction of mussel and rice flour, cooked in the shell is called arikadaka. The Arab influence on the local cuisine is very visible in the rich meat curries and desserts. But you should have the names in Malayalam (the local language of Kerala) - its called Kallummakkaya. But there will be guys to help you out, not a problem.
Other seafood items crab, prawns, lobster and squid available in all restaurants.
And if you are coming outside from India, definitely should consider the extra spiciness of food. And you can taste wide variety of food, in all dishes coconut is a main ingredient.

Drink[edit]
Sharjah Shake - Banana Milk Shake with a twist. “Sharjah” which is famous for its taste as well as its name is considered to be the king of all fruit shakes in Kerala. Contains banana, chilled milk, any chocolate flavoured drink mix, sugar, cardamom crushed and water.
Sulaimani Tea -  A popular alternative to English Breakfast. Sulaimani is very common in the UAE. It's basically tea with no milk and but heaps of sugar with lemon juice. You can opt for no sugar.
Avil Milk shake - Avil is a traditional food in Kerala made of rice. Its a juice combined with milk, avil and ground nuts.

Sleep[edit]
International standard hostels or hotels are not available in Beypore, but you can opt for hotels just outside Beypore that have good prices. Will take only few minutes travel to them.

 Asma Tower Hotel, Mavoor Road, Calicut. 
 Fortune Hotel Calicut, Kannur Road, ☏ +91-11-45566666. 
 Gotheeshwaram Beach Resort, Beypore Road, ☏ +91 495 241 8040. (updated May 2015)
 Hotel Span Calicut. Jail Road, Calicut 4 
 Hotel Maharani. Taluk Road, Puthiyara, Calicut 4 
 Sea Queen Hotel, Beach Road, Calicut (South end of beach). Check-in: 12:00, check-out: 12:00. food and rooms are very good. A roof top restaurant adds another attraction 1800. 
 TAJ Residency, P.T.Usha Road, Calicut, ☏ +91-495 2765354. 
Go next[edit]
Art Gallery - paintings of Raja Ravi Varma and Raja Raja Varma
Canolly Canal - boating (Canolly Canal is such a place as there are many opportunities in the Canolly Canal to take boat and just stroll down the canal for enjoyment. Canolly Canal is especially very enjoyable during the sun set times when tourists stroll down the canal in the small local boats that give you a historical déjà vu.)
Elathur - boating (A very beautiful town as it has a lake that borders it on one side and on the other side; Elathur is bordered by a river. Thus, this unique composition allows Elathur to be a very well sought out place that must be seen by travelers who come to India for its rich heritage.)
Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium - Located opposite the musical fountain is the Jawaharlal Nehru planetarium where you get a chance to unravel the mysteries of outer space.
Kadalundi - bird sanctuary, boating
Kakkayam - trekking and rock climbing through river path, enjoying numerous waterfalls.
Kallai - Once the bustling nerve-centre of Kozhikode's timber trade, said to have been the largest such trading centre in Asia. Today, though some business does take place, hard times have fallen on the timber trade and Kallai is just a shadow of its busy past.
Kallai river - boating.
Kappad - Kappad sea shore is famous because Vasco Da Gamma landed here in 1498 from Europe.
Kirtads - Special museum that shows us glimpses of the past. The main area of concern in the Museum is The Kerala tribe communities of the ancient times. You can find many tools and weapons that were used in the era of the Kerala. In addition, there is a vast anthropological library and an archeological library that has much information on the past history and tribal life styles of ancient India.
Korapuzha - venue of the Korapuzha Jalotsav (water festival)
Kozhikode Beach - hundred years old lighthouse and the two crumbling pier
Kozhippara Water Falls - Ideal location for trekking and swimming, with river side forests, situated in Kakkadampoyil on the Malappuram -Calicut District border, you can reach there by road.
Krishna Menon Museum - dedicated to late V K Krishna Menon, the former Foreign minister and Defence minister of India.
Lion's Park - Situated just next to the famous Calicut Beach. A great theme park with many rides for the children as well as many attractions for the parents. Lion's Park has the very good view of the sunset that is unparalleled in many places.
`Mananchira Maidan - The palace tank of King Mana Vikrama, still used as venue of various festival.
Payyoli - historical place, old fort and mosque of the Kunjali Marakkar.
Pazhassiraja Museum - copies of ancient mural paintings, antique bronzes, coins, temple models and megalithic monuments.
Peruvannamuzhi Dam - Boating facilities, birds sanctuary, crocodile farm.
S M Street - Sweet Meat Street is the busiest street in Kozhikode
Tali Temple - One of the oldest and the most ancient temples around. It is a very distinct temple, and its history goes all the way back to the times of the Zamorin ruler in 14th century builted by Swami Thirumulpad, the Zamorian.
Thikkoti Light House - 1847 build
Tusharagiri - Famous for trekking tracks, with waterfall, evergreen dense forests with exotic birds and wild animals on the way.
Vadakara - A city on bank of Kuttiyadi river, famous 1500 year old Lokanarkavu Bhagavathi Temple, rock cut caves with murals and carvings.
Vellari Mala - waterfalls, velvet green landscapes,  place for trekking.
Wayanad Ghats - en route to Wayanad with nine hairpin bends








This city travel guide to Beypore Beach is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Beypore_Beach&oldid=4826170"