
Bintulu is a part coastal, part riverine town, and the capital of Bintulu District (7,220 km2) in the Bintulu Division of Sarawak, Malaysia. It is a home to about 214,000 inhabitants (2020) in the area. Bintulu is known as a place of 'making a living'. Although it is not a main tourist destination in Sarawak, the local authorities such as Sarawak Tourism Board and Bintulu Development Authority are now putting in the effort to make Bintulu a tourist heaven.


Understand[edit]
Downtown Jalan Abang Galau
Bintulu is a major industrial centre, and soon to be a capital of energy-intensive industries in Malaysia. Its port area to the east of the main town hosts the Petronas Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) Complex, which is the world's largest liquefied natural gas production facility on a single site, and also the very first Shell Middle Distillate Synthesis plant.
The town is half-way between Kuching and Kota Kinabalu. Bintulu is a central gateway to tourist spots like Bakun Resort, Niah Caves (Gua Niah in Malay), Mulu National Park, Longan Bunut National Park, Lambir National Park, Sibuti Wildlife Sanctuary, Rejang Pelagus, Belaga and the Bario Highlands.

History[edit]
Bintulu was once under the rule of the Brunei Sultanate. However, in 1841, Sarawak (now Kuching) was ceded to Sir James Brooke, an English adventurer who then became the First Rajah of Sarawak. In 1861, Bintulu, which was still part of Brunei, was also ceded to the Rajah and became part of Sarawak.
On September 8, 1867, it became the first meeting place of the State Legislative Assembly, the Council Negeri. Following other Sarawak divisional counterparts, Bintulu has also being under the rule of Rajah Brooke family, Japan, British and now Malaysia.
Bintulu began as a fishing village, with few old Chinese shophouses which have since been demolished. Following the discovery of large reserves of natural gas offshore Bintulu in 1969, a feasibility study in 1975 found a suitable site for Sarawak's first deep-water port in nearby Tanjung Kidurong. Realising the industrial potential in Bintulu, the Bintulu Development Authority (BDA) was established in 1978 by the State Government to undertake infrastructure development as well as to coordinate and promote industrial investment in the area.
Bintulu has now thrived tremendously from a small fishing village with the population of mere 70,000 in the early 1970s to more than 214,000 in 2010. Bintulu has superseded Kapit and Sarikei for becoming the fourth largest urban town in Sarawak. The development in Bintulu can be seen anywhere, while changes in its town landscape can be observed significantly in 2–3 years.

Orientation[edit]
Bintulu, a capital town of Bintulu division and district, can be divided into few areas:

Tanjung Kidurong (10-20 km from Bintulu town). Tanjung Kidurong is an industrial zone which consists of Petronas facilities of MLNG, Shell facilities of SMDS, BCOT (Bintulu Crude Oil Terminal), Bintulu Port, ABF (Asean Bintulu Fertilizer), Sarawak Fertilizer and various shipping and hardware factories. There are also housing estates, institutional quarters, settlers (at Sg. Plan), schools (including Technical School), stadiums (both open and closed stadium) and golf course.
Kemena (10 km from Bintulu town). Kemena is also an industrial zone. However it is more focused on timber industries such as logging shipment docks, plywood factories and variety of wood products factories. It also housed Bintulu Port Sdn. Bhd. quarters.
Bintulu town centre. It is where the main trading activities were carried out. It is home to traditional shoppers of wild produce, seafood, fruits and various basic needs which can be obtained mostly at Pasar Tamu or Pasar Utama Bintulu. The Bintulu town centre has also expanded until Tanjung Batu, including Parkcity Commercial Centre (the latest and busiest commercial centre in Bintulu, and also where Parkcity Mall, New World Suites and Parkcity-Everly Hotel were situated).
Jepak. A fishermen village which now has become an extension to Bintulu town centre in the opposite area of Kemena river. It comprises Kg. Jepak and other government offices such as Marine Police.
Medan Jaya & Medan Sentral. A bustling township comes in pair, each located opposite each other at the side of busy junction of Jalan Sultan Iskandar-Jalan Tun Hussein Onn-Jalan Kidurong. It is a premier shopping centre in Bintulu where three supermarket giants; Farley Supermarket, Sing Kwong Supermarket and MDS Supermarket are located.
Get in[edit]
It is approximately 624 km away from Kuching and about 215 km from either Sibu or 205 km from Miri.

By plane[edit]
3.123611113.0202781 Bintulu Airport (BTU  IATA) (is 25 km away from Bintulu town). It is the main gateway for Bintulu division (which can further bring travellers to Sebauh, Tatau, Selangau, Belaga and Niah). There is daily connection from Kuala Lumpur on Malaysia Airlines, while AirAsia operates daily flights from Kuala Lumpur and Kuching, as well as an international flight from Singapore four times a week. MASWings links Bintulu with Mukah, Miri, Kota Kinabalu and Belaga. The airport. All flights outside Sarawak are considered "international", even if you're only going elsewhere in Malaysia. A restaurant is on ground floor at the lower ground and in the boarding hall (named Niah Cafe).   
Getting there: Bintulu town is about 20 minutes away by taxi, a fixed RM35 from the taxi coupon stand just outside arrivals. There are no buses serving the airport. You can be a little bit adventurous by walking for about 1.5 km out of the airport to the airport crossing and catch Jepak bus to Bintulu town. This is an extremely rare thing to do, so just spare some cash for a taxi to Bintulu town instead.

By boat[edit]
Express boats can only link to Bintulu town from other smaller Bintulu suburban and rural areas such as Sebauh, Tubau and Labang. No express boats serving Bintulu town to other major cities and towns in Sarawak.

By bus[edit]
Bintulu 3.200909113.0599022 regional express bus terminal is at Medan Jaya, not far from Farley Supermarket. All Sarawak major towns and cities like Kuching, Sibu, Miri, Mukah, Betong, Sri Aman, Sarikei, Batu Niah and Sungai Tujuh are well connected with Bintulu. Wide array of choices pamper travellers such as MTC Transport, Biaramas, Eva Transport etc. One can also expect towns which can only be served by Bintulu bus terminal such as Sg. Asap (a small town in Belaga area) and Bakun (a hydro-electric project). An international link bus such as to Brunei (via Sg. Tujuh) and Pontianak, Indonesia can be bought at the terminal. Estimated travelling time from Kuching to Bintulu is 9 hours, which sometimes transit to other main towns. To Miri, the bus journey takes approximately 4 hours and costs RM50.

By car[edit]
There is an extensive network of sealed roads linking Bintulu to major cities and towns. One can expect the furthest is from Pontianak (around 1050 km) or even to as far as Tawau in Sabah (more than 1000 km). Bintulu is always a transit town from Kuching to Kota Kinabalu.

Get around[edit]
3°10′12″N 113°1′48″EMap of Bintulu
By bus[edit]
Local bus in Bintulu is served by City Public Link. The bus goes to other minor parts of the town to as far as Sungai Plan, Nyalau and Tatau/Kuala Tatau. Municipal bus can be found one stop at the Pasar Tamu Bus Terminal. The fare is RM1 under RM1 Flat Rate Bus Fare Programme.
Normally, only rural people and low-income group urban and suburban people use the bus. So if you are a first-time traveler to Bintulu, be prepared to speak in a simple Bahasa Melayu, Bahasa Iban or Bahasa Melayu-Sarawak language. English is not a commonly used language by bus travellers here.

By boat[edit]
Various express boats serve Bintulu which connect Bintulu to other minor towns and rural areas such as Sebauh, Tatau, Kuala Tatau, Tubau and Labang. The fare ranges from RM2 to RM80 (depend on the destination). Travelers can also rent a 'perahu' or speed boat to other minor towns for greater adventure. However, spare a lot of cash for this purpose because the rent can shoot up to RM500 per day (excluding engine oil).

On foot[edit]
Bintulu old town is quite a pedestrian-friendly with lots of traffic lights served for pedestrians. However, walk to other parts of town might be a tiring one, especially to Parkcity Commercial area and Medan Jaya. A bus will cost you less than RM2.

See[edit]
3.1586113.04251 Kampung Jepak (by tambang from main town of Bintulu, or via road from Bintulu-Sibu Road using the exit to Kuala Tatau/Kampung Jepak). A traditional fishing village where majority of the inhabitants are Melanaus (Bintulu Melanaus) and Malays. It is separated from the main town of Bintulu by Sungai Kemena. You may be mesmerized by the traditional feature and lifestyle of Bintulu Melanau such as sago processing, fish drying, manufacturing of belacan (shrimps paste), cencaluk (salted shrimps), making of Terendak (Melanau Headgear) and Tutop (food cover or "tudung sarang/tudung saji"). (updated Jul 2022)
Council Negri Monument
3.173113.0392 Council Negri Monument. Bintulu is home to the first legislative assembly meeting of Sarawak. It was held in 1867. With Charles Brooke, the second white Rajah of Sarawak in the chair, there sat 5 of his British Officers and 16 Malay and Melanau Members (Chiefs) to mark a new era in the conduct of the affairs of the state. A centenary stone commemorating the centennial of the historical meeting was erected on this site in 1967 and was further improved to include a clock tower and fountain in 1987. The monument can be found by visitors on their way to the heart of Bintulu town. (updated Jul 2022)
3.1706113.04043 Pasar Utama & Pasar Tamu Bintulu, Jalan Main Bazaar. These markets, side by side, are the most frequently visited location in Bintulu, by rural folks and tourists. The market is divided into many parts, each for different type of traded items such as fruits, belachan (shrimp paste) & cincaluk (a solution of fermented shrimps), wet areas (for fish and seafood traders), vegetables and a basic commodities. The upper floor of Pasar Tamu is a place where local delicacies can be savoured. If you visit Bintulu, it is a must to buy Bintulu belachan and cincaluk. Its pure, natural and traditional way of processing makes these tourists favourite keep coming back for more! (updated Jul 2022)
3.209889113.0451544 Pantai Tanjung Batu Bintulu. Fancy a rocky and sandy beach side-by-side? This unique feature happens to be the attraction to Tanjung Batu Beach (which is also how the name is given, "Rocky Isthmus"). It is a place where people in Bintulu jog and stroll their way along the beach, or the road with their families, apart from taking a sun-tanning session. However, beware the coastline during monsoon season, as there has been cases of drowning annually. (updated Oct 2022)
3.180299113.0337695 Bintulu Promenade. The 120-acre Bintulu Promenade is the state's longest waterfront attraction similar to the one in Kuching. It is a commercial and recreational park rolled into one and strategically located near the delta of Kemena River and the Parkcity Everly Hotel. Perfect place for a relaxing stroll and to watch sunset and enjoy the evening breeze. (updated Oct 2022)
 Pasar Malam. Unlike Pasar Malam in Kuching or Miri, Bintulu Pasar Malam is held every single day, be it weekdays or weekends, and also local holidays. Here you can enjoy local version of 'fast food', from apam balik, roti canai, burger, or even nasi campur. As for non-Muslims, they can also savor pork delicacies such as siew pau. Other traded items include bundled jeans pants, handbags and also, smuggled cigarettes & liquors (again!). (updated Oct 2022)
Masjid Assyakirin[edit]
It was named Masjid Assyakirin, which defines "Gratefulness". It is a centre of religious activities by Muslims in Bintulu. It has once organized state-level event of "Majlis Nuzul Quran" (an event to commemorate 'birth' of Quran). As a matter of fact, it is the largest mosque in Bintulu division, and also the only mosque in Malaysia which is maintained by BDA, a local municipal authority (not religious departments). (Pictured in the article banner.)

Kuan Ying Tong Temple[edit]
Situated on Jalan Iskandar and surrounded by three churches; St. Thomas Anglican church, Methodist Church and St. Anthony Catholic church, this is the only Chinese temple in the area. It is 2 km from Bintulu town centre. Amongst the peculiar features of this unique spiritual landmark are the rock garden courtyard, man-made waterfall and dragon fencing - all of quality craftmanship. It can be easily seen on your way to the heart of Bintulu town.

Taman Tumbina[edit]
Being the only zoo in the northern region of Sarawak, Taman Tumbina is a house to various animals such as crocodiles and pythons. Most of the visitors enter the park for jungle-trekking or hill climbing. The beautiful scenery of South China Sea awaits people who dare to climb to the top of the hill!

Bintulu Prominade
Do[edit]
3.424113.2331 Similajau National Park (30 km north of Bintulu), ☏ +60 86-336101. This coastal park is known for its easy forest hikes, beautiful beaches, and saltwater crocodiles. There is modern and inexpensive accommodation available at the park in the form of chalets and a hostel, as well as a basic canteen. There is no public transport to the park. An e-taxi will cost around 30 RM. The return journey may require a more expensive regular taxi. Take protection for mosquitoes. Adult RM20, disabled person RM10, child 7-18 RM7, child 6 and under free.   (updated Jul 2022)
Golfing: The annual event of Piala TYT makes Bintulu Golf Course a must for visitors who love to play golf. It has the splendid scenery of pine trees along the rocky beach of Tanjung Batu.
Fishing is one of the popular hobbies in Bintulu. People can opt for fishing at the rivermouth of Kemena river, or at the sea for seafood, or if you are looking for freshwater food, you can go fishing at Tubau river, Tatau river (upriver area) or Jelalong river. However, beware of crocodiles and shallow water, your boat might hit those big trunks or rocks at the riverbed and it might spoil your mood for fishing.
Festival and celebrations[edit]
Bintulu has hosted several festivals and celebrations throughout the year. Among the most popular celebrations in Bintulu are:

International Borneo Kite Festival. Held annually between July to August, the festival is a one-week event which showcased the public display of kites from around the world, ranging from traditional kites of Wau to more modern flying sculpture such as Pokémon.
Bintulu Regatta. Held annually and back-to-back with Sebauh, the event is held to encourage people from people around Bintulu to compete for the fastest boat rowing. It is similar to Dragon Boat Festival in China and the competition offers prizes for various categories such as speed boat, motor boat and traditional boat.
An Evening in Bintulu. Held annually to celebrate New Year right from 1 December to the end. It includes various activities such as singing competition, trade fair, new year celebration and Christmas carolling. The brainchild of this event is the Resident of Bintulu, Dr. Razali Abon, with help from various government agencies such as JKR Bintulu and also participants from private agencies, corporate bodies and individuals.
Buy[edit]
 Parkcity Mall, Parkcity Commercial Area. Buy branded products, splurge with beautiful hair makeover or eat nice honey waffle here! 
 Pasar Utama & Pasar Tamu Bintulu, Lebuhraya Abang Galau. If you love Belachan and Cincaluk, or traditional shoppers at wet markets, head yourself straight to the heart of Bintulu town for a tour at Pasar Utama & Pasar Tamu Bintulu. 
 City Point, Keppel Road. Cheap shoes and DVDs are one of the big attractions here. The one and only cineplex in Bintulu (and also the oldest cineplex in Malaysia!) is also situated here. You can catch a glimpse of old machine where movies were played during the old days of Bintulu cineplex. 
 Farley Bintulu, Medan Jaya. Retail supermarket with wide array of basic necessities. Near the outstation bus terminal. 
 Sing Kwong Supermarket, Medan Central & Jalan Tanjung Batu. Buy everyday necessities here. They have 2 huge locations in Bintulu which is by far, a lot cheaper than Farley. They do also retail a lot of Australian products and impose on freshness of their quality goods. If your looking for something special or a better deal, just head right away to Singkwong. 
 Ngiu Kee Departmental Store, Lebuhraya Abang Galau. Buy your daily needs here. Nothing much can be found here. 
 Everwin, Lebuhraya Abang Galau. Three-storey shopping centre for your favourite clothes, or buy school uniforms, shoes, pants, curtains, cushion covers, undergarments and almost everything in the name of 'fabric' can be found here. 
 MDS Supermarket (Jalan Abang Galau & Medan Jaya), Jalan Abang Galau & Medan Jaya. Buy normal basic needs here. Nothing special here. 
 Monegain, Berjaya Commercial Square. A neighborhood supermarket to cater people from the surrounding area of Mile 1 to Mile 2 1/2 for basic needs.(Behind Li Hua Hotel) 
There are some items you must buy when you are Bintulu. Here are those most essential items that you must buy when you visit Bintulu:

Belachan (Shrimp Paste) in Bintulu is the most popular food ingredients in Sarawak. Most Sarawakians, especially Malay, cook their traditional cuisines using Bintulu Belachan. It is made from sun-dried shrimp, mixed with salt solution. It is a main ingredient for Midin Belachan, Mee Hoon Belachan, Laksa Sarawak and Nasi Goreng Belachan.
Cincaluk (Fermented Shrimp Paste): this salty shrimpy 'juice' is not to be consumed by a people who hate stinky food. It was made from fermented shrimp (dipped in vinegar and salt) with some other additives. Cincaluk in Bintulu is considered to be 'pure' and original due to the fact that there was no added colouring or preservatives in the making of this cincaluk.
Terendak (Melanauh Headgear): if you notice in Bintulu, there are a lot of recreational parks (or even the Pasar Tamu and Wisma Bintulu roof) are in the shape of terendak, or Melanau headgear. It is normally used to protect oneself under the sun. Head on to local handicrafts store in Bintulu to get your very own Terendak.
Tutop (food cover), or "tudung saji" in Malay, is also in a shape of Terendak. The difference is just its purpose and the size of it. You can get your own Tutop at local market or handicrafts/souvenir shop.
Sagu products: Sagu is an extract of a trunk of Sagu tree. Traditionally, it was made by hard-pressing the trunk to extract its juice and the juice will be sun-dried to make a sagu flour. The sagu flour then can be made into different type of local delicacies like Tebaloi, Biji Sagu, Linut and Sagu biscuits. Most of sagu products are 'dry', so don't be afraid to take one if you are in the long journey to go home.
Eat[edit]
Be it budget or splurge, Bintulu is somehow a fine place for casual dining.

 Seribu Bintang Restaurant, Jalan Kg. Baru (end of Kpg Baru) (located just at the splitted road of Kg. Baru), ☏ +60 19-8853412, +60 19-8298790, +60 17-2783721. This is a place where you can savour variety of Thai, Chinese, Malay, Indian and Indonesian cuisine under one roof. The local favourites here are Brocoli with Sea Asparagus, Sea Cucumber Soup, Stim or Deep Fried fish with various type of sauce (eg: Asam Nyonya, Cantonese Style, Thai Paste), Tandoori, Nan, Nasi Bryani (Real Bryani style), Sizzling Food, Claypot, Kerabu, Umai (sarawak Local Food), Mussel, Ambal, Burung Puyuh and lots more. There are several 'pondok' for customer who want to sit on the floor. Romantic music is play throughout the night. 
 Chiems Restoran Nelayan, Jalan Kg. Baru (just at the side of roundabout linking Sebiew, Kg. Baru and Bintulu town). Visitors' favourites are Kangkung in Belacan Sauce, Fried Chicken, Ikan Sebelah Masak Kari and so on. You can also pick your own fish to be cooked. 
 Famous Mama (opposite Ambank). They cooked the best Nasi Kandar and Nasi Beriani in Bintulu. However, during peak hours, the restaurant will be jammed with people from nearby mosque and suraus after their prayers. 
 Nasi Lemak Kidurong (opposite Petronas Dagang, another one is at Kemena). They serve one of the best Nasi Lemak in Sarawak. Their nasi ayam also a local favourite and their nasi campur is one of the cheapest in town. Their delicious food made some people craving for it from upriver come here just to savour it. 
 Refah Corner, Medan Jaya (in the same row of shophouses with Courts Mammoth). You will surely love their roti canai and roti sardin. It's one of the best in town! The bread is crispy and thick, and the filling is also thick and tasty! 
 Azah Pon Cafe, Medan Jaya (behind Shell Medan Jaya). They serve the best Mee Jawa in town. Although, they are some of their regular visitors who can't forget the deliciousness of their Mee Jawa and Mee Jawa Special (with satay). 
 Selera Utara, Parkcity Commercial Centre (same row of shophouses with Bank Rakyat). Serving fine northern Malaysian cuisine. They also serve Nasi Bukhari, Nasi Beriani, Pasembur and some other famous Peninsular Malaysia cuisine. A bit expensive, but you can try them once in a while! 
 Restoran Sri Bayu, Parkcity Commercial Centre (next to Metrology Station). They serve the crispiest roti canai and roti sardin in Bintulu. You might need to wait a little bit longer than usual, but it's worth the wait! The food are also cheap. 
 Peace Garden, Parkcity Commercial Centre. They serve best Halal Chinese food in town. You can choose from lemon chicken, Japanese tofu, stir fry Pak Choy or butter prawn! There are also not so expensive, but you can try them once a week with your family. 
 Apple Restaurant, Parkcity Commercial Centre. They serve variety of traditional yet delicious Chinese seafood. It is also a perfect place for family weekend dining. 
 Abida Cafe, Lebuhraya Abang Galau (behind Regency Plaza Hotel). The service is quick, and you will get your roti canai fresh and hot from their kitchen. A bit crowded at night, but don't be surprised with their hospitality and the price of their food. It's kinda cheap too! 
 Restoran Marco Polo, Lebuhraya Abang Galau (next to Maybank). If you fancy Western cuisine or very traditional book-only Chinese food, head on to Restoran Marco Polo. They serve very nice and tasty fried cod fish, beef steak and lamb chop. However, this place is normally for splurge dining. 
 Restoran Chic Wan, Parkcity Commercial Centre (behind Parkcity Mall). This restaurant serves wide variety of delicious Chinese-Malay fusion food such as Curry Mee, Chicken Rice and Fried Mee. 
 Ban Kee Cafe, No. 100, Taman Sri Dagang (Bintulu town Centre (behind Regency Plaza Hotel)), ☏ +60 86-317228. This is a Chinese restaurant served variety of Chinese and Malay foods. Besides that, if you like seafood (i.e, crabs, prawns, clams, mussels, lobster) then you can just go there and have a try. 
 Bao Bao Restoran at Medan Jaya, Bintulu, opposite the Supersave Medan Jaya (Bintulu Medan Jaya). This is a Chinese restaurant served variety of Chinese foods. The place you can enjoy "mee goreng kering" very delicious you can just go there and have a try. 
Drink[edit]
Due to the sizeable expat population here thanks to its oil & gas industry, Bintulu is not lacking in night life. There are numerous bars, pubs, clubs & karaokes here for the working class to relax and enjoy themselves after a hectic day.
The oil & gas boom era also brought  prostitution into the city. It is illegal, and is allegedly controlled by triad gangs.

 Casablanca (fun pub), Lebuhraya Abang Galau (opposite PJ Corner Restaurant). Narrow, crowded, noisy, three words to describe Casablanca.the place is reputatble for it good sound system and the "Best Live Band" in town. It's a fun place for all age group. 
 Pub Kitai, Lebuhraya Abang Galau (opposite City Point). This pub offers a selection of Iban songs for you to bang your head with. It's very nice to 'joget' or 'poco-poco' in here. There are also some shows made by the strip teasers and lion dancing moves too. 
 Paddy's Coffee House, New World Suites (Parkcity Commercial Centre). In New World Suites Hotel, a restaurant where you can dine in a romantic mood with magnificent view of Bintulu sunset. Very cosy! 
Work[edit]
Bintulu is not a main tourist attraction. People say, you can spend money in Singapore, but you got to earn it in Bintulu! Bintulu is the place where the biggest integrated gas processing plant in the world and the first Shell Middle Distillate Synthesis (SMDS) in the world located, and also thriving industries taking place, from fertilizers (ASEAN fertilizers plant is situated here) to shipping, petrochemicals, palm oil processing & plantations as well as timber industries. World-renowned companies like Shell and Petronas made their home in Bintulu.
Bintulu is a core development area of Sarawak corridor (SCORE). It will house bigger and more energy-intensive industries like aluminium smelting plant. It is also linked to the biggest hydroelectric dam in Malaysia, Bakun. More and more investors are interested in taking part of SCORE.

Learn[edit]
Bintulu is a home to several academic institution. It has a branch campus Malaysian-renowned universiti, Universiti Putra Malaysia. It has also Sedamai College (private institution). GGIFA (Gulf Golden International Flying Academy), an academy for aspiring pilots, is based next to Bintulu Airport. Soon to be opened in Bintulu is ADTEC (Advanced Technology College), a college offering diploma by Ministry of Human Resource Malaysia, and also IKM (Institut Kemahiran Mara), a college specifically for disadvantaged Bumiputeras who wish to undergo hard skills.

Sleep[edit]
Budget[edit]
 Regent Hotel, Kemena Commercial Centre, Jln. Tg. Batu, ☏ +60 86-335511. 
 Hoover Hotel, No. 92, Jalan Keppel, ☏ +60 86-337166. 
 Royal Inn, Jalan Pedada, ☏ +60 86-332166. 
 Sunlight Inn, Jalan Pedada, ☏ +60 86-332577. 
 Sea View Inn, Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-339118. 
 Sun Star Inn, 140, Jln Masjid, Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-318533. RM55-65. 
 New Capital Inn, Jalan Pedada, ☏ +60 86-335152. 
 National Inn, No. 47, 1st Floor, Medan Sepadu, ☏ +60 86-337222. 
 Garden Inn, No. 118, Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-339399. 
 Kintown Inn Sdn Bhd, No. 93, Jalan Keppel, Medan Sepadu, ☏ +60 86-333666. 
 Centre Inn, No. 5 & 6, Jalan Pedada, ☏ +60 86-316963. 
 King's Hotel, No. 162, Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-337337. 
 Siong Hing Inn, No. 143,Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-316663. 
 Welcome Inn Sdn. Bhd, No. 186, 1st Floor, Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-315266. 
 Summer Inn, No. 19, 1st Floor, New Commercial Centre, ☏ +60 86-311223. 
 Faber Inn, No. 163, Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-313667. 
 Medan Inn, Medan Jaya Commercial Centre, ☏ +60 86-317119. 
 Delight Inn, No. 12, 1st Floor,  Jalan Law Gek Soon, ☏ +60 86-317777. 
 Bakun Inn, No. 7, 1st Floor,  Jalan Law Gek Soon, ☏ +60 86-311111. 
 Utama Inn, No. 40,  Jalan Sommerville, ☏ +60 86-334539. 
 Riverfront Inn, No. 256,   Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-333111. 
 Houz Inn, No. 161,Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-336399. 
 Kemena Inn, No. 78,Jalan Keppel, ☏ +60 86-333378. 
 Sri Dagang Inn, No. 192,Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-335977. 
 Lian Hing Inn, No. 50,Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-315663. 
 H-5 Inn, No.13,14,15 of Parent Lot2626, Bintulu Town District, Jalan Tun Ahmad Zaidi, Parkcity, ☏ +60 86-310005. 
 Mastama Inn, No. 43-44,New Commercial Centre, Jalan Abang Galau, ☏ +60 86-317204. 
 New Lead Inn, No. 73,Jalan Keppel, ☏ +60 86-333366. 
 Fata Inn, No. 113,Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-332998. 
 Diamond Inn, No. 151,Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-338911. 
Mid-range[edit]
 Kemena Plaza Hotel, Taman Sri Dagang, ☏ +60 86-335111. Near Pasar Tamu and old town of Bintulu. 
 New World Suites, Parkcity Commercial Centre, ☏ +60 86-331122. New World Suites is at the doorstep of Parkcity Mall, the largest shopping mall in Bintulu. It is surrounded with shopping, dining and entertainment outlets. A 25-minute drive to and from Bintulu airport, it is the gateway to the l Mulu and Niah Caves. 
 Parkcity Everly Hotel, Plot No. 1, Lot 3062, Jln. Tun Razak, 97000 Bintulu, ☏ +60 86-318888. Bintulu's first luxury hotel designed and constructed with a unique "step-design" facade. Equipped with 228 rooms decorated in simple elegance and furnished with modern-day conveniences. 
 Li Hua Hotel, Berjaya Commercial Centre Jalan Sultan Iskandar (opposite Perbinda, close to JKR Bintulu), ☏ +60 86-335000. If you love it to be a bit far from the town centre, go ahead to Li Hua Hotel.(Distance from town, 1 km, 1 km from Medan sentral, Medan Jaya (Out station bus terminal & main shopping centres i.e. Farley, Sing Kwong & MDS store 
 Kemena Hotel, Assyakirin Commercial Centre, Jalan Sultan Iskandar (within proximity of Kg. Assyakirin), ☏ +60 86-319222. Mid-range hotel. It has a cafe and medium-sized banquet hall. 
 Imperial Suites Bintulu, Jalan Tanjung Batu (opposite Tumbina, close to Wisma Bintulu and Tanjung Batu beach), ☏ +60 86-330399. This hotel suites cum apartment and penthouse is the most luxurious hotel in Bintulu. It has wide range of facilities and a stone-throw away from the beach. 
 Jinhold Apartment, Lot 7920, Along Jalan Tanjung Batu Bintulu, Malaysia, ☏ +60 86-318 333. (updated Jan 2016)
Go next[edit]
Bintulu is a gateway for various places of ecotourism and cultural attraction.

Niah National Park[edit]
The Niah National Park is located some 120 km by road to the north of Bintulu. The faeces of bats at the caves are an important source of natural fertilizer. The west mouth of the Niah Caves is one of the most important archaeological sites in Southeast Asia. It is significant because of the wide range of stone tools used from the old Stone Age, discovery of skulls (of earliest human in Southeast Asia). Prehistoric wall paintings also exist in one of the caves. There are chalets, hostel accommodation and an inexpensive canteen available at the park. To get here, take any Bintulu-Miri bus and get off at the Niah junction, where the bus will make a rest stop. Informal taxis should be waiting nearby and will charge 30 RM for the 15 km run to the park. From the park entrance you will be guided with wooden signages to the Niah cave trail. The journey to the Niah Caves involves a 40-metre walk along a 3-kilometre plankwalk. Niah Caves are famous for its luxurious birds' nests.

Pesta Sg. Asap, held once in 5 years
Sungai Asap & Bakun[edit]
Bintulu is also a gateway to the hinterland of Kapit Division. As a matter of fact, although Bakun and Sungai Asap are both in Kapit Division (or Belaga District), they are the only place in Kapit where it was accessible from the main trunk road of Pan Borneo Highway. Sungai Asap is a settlement where tourists can opt for a homestay with local Orang Ulu longhouses and learn their culture and lifestyles. Once in 5 years, Sungai Asap will be the place where all villagers from the surrounding area to gather and celebrate Pesta Sungai Asap. Bakun, in other hand, is a bit far from Sungai Asap. It is the site of the largest hydroelectric dam in Malaysia. The electrical supply from this dam was planned to accommodate supply demands in Peninsular Malaysia, Sarawak and neighbouring countries, Indonesia and Brunei. To get to Bakun and Sungai Asap, you may need to drive from Bintulu with travelling time up to 2 hours.
Beware of logging trucks while using Bintulu-Bakun road to Sungai Asap and Bakun. There are lots of them using this road everyday.

Kuala Nyalau beach
Kuala Nyalau[edit]
Kuala Nyalau is a place where beach with many coral reefs leftovers scattered on its coastline. There is also beautiful waterfall not far from the beach. To get here, you need to drive using Bintulu-Miri coastal road. The travelling time is estimated around 1–2 hours. Once you arrive at the Nyalau junction (bear in mind, Nyalau, not Nyabau!), drive another 10 km to the sea using parly sealed, partly crusher run (stone) road. The road is a bit bullish at certain areas due to its hilly terrain.
The road leading to Kuala Nyalau is narrow, hilly, winding and partly bare soil road. Don't dare to drive during heavy rain. Even during sunny day, watch out for opposite vehicles especially lorries. The condition of the road might be sometimes too rough for any visitors to go in.

Tatau[edit]
Tatau is rich with seafood and freshwater produce. Mi Hong Kong served in Tatau prove this fact.
Tatau is a small town, which is also a capital district of Tatau. It comprises different areas such as Kuala Tatau (using its own Bintulu-Kuala Tatau road, or using water transport from Tatau using Tatau river), Sangan (accessible by road), Ng Sangan, Nanga Tau and Kuala Muput. If you love fishing, you will love Tatau especially when you go cruising along the Tatau river for your freshwater catch or down to the rivermouth for seafood.

Sebauh[edit]
Sebauh is a small district under Bintulu division. However, it is a centre of trading for people from around Sebauh like Pandan and Ulu Sebauh, and around its area, up to the deepest upriver area of Kuala Kebulu, Tubau and Labang. Like Tatau, Sebauh is popular among fishing freak.







This city travel guide to Bintulu is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Bintulu&oldid=4810218"