
Biratnagar is a metropolitan municipality and the second largest city of Nepal. It is the fourth largest city by total population. The city is a located in Morang district of Eastern Nepal.


Understand[edit]

With a population of over 200,000 in 2011, Biratnagar is the fourth largest city in Nepal, and it is near the Terai on the south-eastern border with India.

Get in[edit]
A flight from Kathmandu (290 km) takes 40–45 minutes if there isn't any air traffic, and single tickets cost about US$220 for foreigners and around ₹2860 for nationals on domestic airlines.
By bus it may take 10–13 hours of time for about ₹700-900. There are two ways in travelling by bus: one is in day and other in night. In comparison to day, night buses are safe to travel because at night there are no strikes or road blockades. While travelling by bus you can witness the beauty of various scenes that one misses by aeroplanes. Its good to take food of your own because the hotels on the way serve bad quality food. Only the bus personnel get proper food.

Get around[edit]
Rickshaws and/or walking are good options within the city. Expect to pay about ₹2 per minute if using a rickshaw, depending on how many people you are or if you have a lot of cargo.  There are no official taxi service, but taxis are easily available at airport, near Mahendra Chowk and from major hotels. There are tempoo's (auto rickshaws) around the city that are a cheaper means of transport than all other transportation option. Buses aren't used that frequently for transportation.

See[edit]
 Biratnagar Jute Mills. The oldest industrial endeavour in Nepal. It's almost nonfunctional now 
 Jana Andolan Chowk, Near Nepal Bazar (about 30 minutes from Jogbani). Anytime. It is the Centre of Biratnagar. No cost. (updated Apr 2016)
 Surya Nepal, Near Gateway Of Biratnagar (you can reach here by bus). Anytime. It is industry which supplies clothes to the residents of Biratnagar add the rest of  Nepal No cost for tour. (updated Apr 2016)
 Sahid Maidan (Sahid Rangasala), Near the office of Nepal Telecom and in front of the Adarsha School. This is the only venue of Biratnagar for hosting different programmes and games. If there is a game, you should pay. (updated Apr 2016)
Do[edit]
Buy[edit]
An ATM is available on the main commercial avenue. There are a number of ATMs in Biratnagar. Take Main street north from Traffic Chowk (police station), there is one on the right side, then five minutes further north you turn left and find one. Similarly, you can get lot more.
For groceries, there is a supermarket near (ex-) Mahendra Chowk.

Eat[edit]
Unique Fast Food Restaurant on the main commercial avenue (not the one that comes from the airport) has a clean and funny interior, and decent food.
 Angan Sweets & Vegetarian Family Restaurant, Main road (straight from traffic chowk,(1/2 km)), ☏ +977 21-512445. Chinese, north Indian, south Indian, Nepalese foods, specialty-offers different kind of sweets. 
Drink[edit]
 Feel Good Bar and Grill, Airport Mode. Good place to hang out, with good music. 
Sleep[edit]
 Hotel Harrison Palace, Bajrangabali Marg, ☏ +977 21-511034. For when you want to go all out in Biratnagar, because it has a restaurant/bar, spa, and gym. Rs. 3398. 
 Ratna hotel, ☏ +977 21-472455. Near the main market area, next to Mahendra Chowk. A reasonable good business hotel. Good food and ok, although run-down, bar. Wireless internet available for a hefty price of ₹200 for 1 hour, or ₹500 for 24 hours, from the time you begin using the voucher. ₹1500-4000. 
 Eastern Star (south of bus park, take right further down). Basically same standard as Ratna, but further from the market area, and thus a more quiet location. They have wifi. ₹800, ₹1500 (AC). 
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Biratnagar is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Biratnagar&oldid=4826095"