
Cardwell resides on the tropical Cassowary Coast, North Queensland, Australia. 


Understand
Cardwell is the launching pad for a variety of unique natural and cultural experiences. Situated between two  World Heritage Areas i.e. Cardwell Range Queensland Wet Tropics and the Great Barrier Reef. Cardwell resides on the southern shoreline of Rockingham Bay. Marine Parade Cardwell, Cardwell Jetty  provides amazing coastal scenery.  To the east and offshore lie densely vegetated continental island National Parks e.g. Hinchinbrook Island, Goold Island and the Brook Islands Group. To the north and east of Mission Beach are the Family Islands Group, Bedarra Island and Dunk Island.
The Girringun Aboriginal Corporation located in Cardwell represents the interests of nine Aboriginal Tribal Groups in the region.  Cardwell lies within Girramay Country, while Hinchinbrook Island is Bandjin Country.  The Girringun Aboriginal Coporation Centre hosts a Public Museum and locally produced Arts & Crafts.
Northwest of Cardwell along the upper reaches of the Murray River catchment is the Jumbun Aboriginal Community.  Jumbun is at the foot of the mountainous rainforest escarpment, gateway to Murray Falls.  A popular day trip location and camping destination.  The Jumbun Community conduct small group guided tours of their Jumbun Museum and Traditional Lands centred on the Murray River and Murray Falls.  Having resided on their traditional lands since colonization, the Jumbun Community still celebrate, maintain and share the cultural knowledge of their lands, waterways and rainforest.  Jumbun Arts & Crafts are unique, renowned for their Juwun Basket and weaving techniques.

Get in
18°15′36″S 146°1′48″EMap of Cardwell
By plane
Dallachy Aerodrome lies to the north of Cardwell adjacent the Bruce Highway, contact the Cassowary Coast Regional Council for landing information.

By car
The Bruce Highway, named Victoria Street within the town limits links Townsville and Cairns, North Queensland provincial cities. 

By train
The Cardwell Rail Station is located within easy walking distance to the Cardwell Cultural Precinct and CBD.  Namely the Bush Telegraph & Heritage Centre and Hinchinbrook Art Gallery.  Daily scheduled Coach services operate from Cardwell's transit zone in Brasenose Street.

-18.2679146.02821 Cardwell railway station, Bowen St.   (updated Aug 2020)
By boat
Cardwell Public Boat Ramps are located at Meunga Creek and Marine Parade.  The Cardwell Jetty can be used for temporary moorings. Both Cardwell Public Boat Ramps and Jetty are subject to local tidal and sea conditions.  The Marina Public Boat Ramp remains unaccessible at low tide; it has failed to address the issues of boating access to the sheltered waters of the Channel, the estuaries, islands and the Great Barrier Reef. It.

Get around
Land Based Sightseeing:

Self Drive
Two Wheel Drive Vehicles, SUV's, Four Wheel Drives & Motorcycles.  Sealed roadways, all weather unsealed roads; accessibility subject to climatic extremes e.g. Localised flooding, Cyclones.

Scenic Road Routes
Bruce Highway, Cardwell Forestry Drive, Girramay National Park, Kennedy Valley, Kirrama Range Road, Bilyana - Jumbum - Murray Falls.  Roadways also suited to sealed/unsealed Road Cycling and Walking.

Walking & Trail Walks
Cardwell Foreshore, Cardwell Forestry, Edmund Kennedy National Park, Dalrymple Gap, Kirrama Range Road, Society Flats, Hinchinbrook Island Thorsborne Trail, Blencoe Falls "Juwun Walk."
Local Cardwell Road Transport Service Providers:-

Cardwell Taxi & Charters.
Ingham Travel - Shuttle Passenger Services.

Marine & Hinchinbrook Island Activities:
Cardwell is renowned for Boating & Fishing.  Regular  Services operate to - Hinchinbrook Island - Missionary Bay - Cape Richards.  Fishing Charters & Tours, Houseboat Hire and Motorboat Rentals can be arranged by local accommodation providers in Cardwell.

See
-18.267475146.0297461 Cardwell Bush Telegraph, 53 Victoria St, ☏ +61 7 4066 2412. (updated Oct 2021)
Do
Cultural Experiences:

Aboriginal Culture - Girringun Aboriginal Corporation, Jumbun Murray Upper.
Local History - Cardwell Bush Telegraph & Heritage Centre.
Arts & Crafts - Hinchinbrook Regional Arts Association.
Visitor Information - Cardwell Rainforest and Reef Centre.
Socializing, Dining, Events, Conventions, Sporting Competitions.
Outdoor Activity Experiences:

Lawn Bowls & Golf.
Day Trips - Sightseeing, Wildlife Sighting, Picnics, BBQ's and Camping.
Walking, Jogging, Cycling and Motorcycle Riding.
Swimming, Snorkelling, Spear Fishing and Scuba Diving.
Boating - Day Tours, Sailing and Cruising.
Net Casting, Crabbing, Baitcasting, Luring, Bottom Fishing and Game Fishing.
Special Interest:

Family Holiday, Extended Vacation, Rest, Relaxation, Sports Activities.
Photography - Attractions, Culture, Nature, Wildlife, Natural Landscape Features.
Visual Arts - Etching, Sketching and Water Colours.
Cross Country Touring - Mountain Bike & Motorcycle Riding.
Multi day Camping - Bushwalking, Trekking and Hiking.
Buy
Eat
-18.263655146.02521 Vivia Cafe, 135 Victoria St, ☏ +61 7 4066 8030. 8AM-3PM. (updated Oct 2021)
Drink
Sleep
-18.2611146.02351 Cardwell Beachfront Motel, 1 Scott St, ☏ +61 7 4066 8776. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. (updated Jul 2021)
Connect
Go next


Routes through Cardwell




Cairns ← Tully ←

 N  S 

→ Thuringowa → Townsville








This city travel guide to Cardwell is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Cardwell&oldid=4883279"