
Castlemaine is an historic goldmining town the Goldfields region of Victoria popular with travellers from Melbourne. Castlemaine had a population of approximately 7,500 in 2021, and is home to a vibrant arts scene. 


Get in[edit]
Map of Castlemaine
Castlemaine is accessible from Melbourne by the major Calder Freeway, taking the turn-off onto the Pyrenees Highway. The journey is about 120 km, equating to a 90-minute drive. Castlemaine is also reached from surrounding regional cities via the Midland and Pyrenees Highways, of which it is at the crossroads.
The town is well-served by its railway station on the Bendigo line. There are regular trains  from Melbourne at least every hour, taking 90 minutes. There are also services from neighbouring towns and cities, including Maryborough, Geelong, Bendigo and Ballarat. See Public Transport Victoria for timetable information. A tourist, steam-run railway also operates to nearby Maldon from the station.
Buses and coaches leave frequently to Castlemaine from major regional cities as well, while also serving minor towns and villages without a railway station. See PTV for timetables and routes.
Alternatively, hitchhiking is generally accepted in the entire Central Victorian region. Neighbouring towns and villages such as Chewton, Maldon and often Bendigo can be reached by simply sticking out your thumb and getting a lift from friendly locals and passing farmers.

Get around[edit]
There is a taxi rank in front of the station, and another in front of the large supermarket. 
Prices are standard, and it's normal to book a taxi by phone.

See[edit]
Castlemaine boasts a proud automotive history, and is the self-proclaimed 'Hot Rod Capital' of Victoria. There are many small private automotive collections that are open to the public. For more information see Tourism Victoria.
The evidence of the rich gold mining past is still evident in the grand architecture and impressive Victorian-style hotels on most street corners. There are impressively large mullock heaps of shale and occasional open-mine shafts, which can make bushwalking off marked trails at times dicey. One open mine shaft, dubbed 'the Chinaman's hole', is of historic significance. It is believed to be where the bodies of 16 Chinese prospectors who were killed in the 1859 uprising were interred. It is said if you cast a coin into this shaft, and listen closely, you will receive a fortune. It is displayed on the bushwalking map of the area.

-37.1915144.2171 Castlemaine Diggings National Heritage Park. A historic park featuring some relics from the gold rush.   (updated Feb 2022)
The Bourke and Wills memorial. A simple obelisk that commemorates the disastrous expedition of Robert O'Hara Burke and William John Wills. Its objective was the crossing of Australia from Melbourne in the south to the Gulf of Carpentaria in the north. It's not that interesting but it's only 5 minutes walk from town.
The Old Gaol. Historical British prison that stands on the hill overlooking the train station. There's a private art gallery inside it which of December 2023 isn't open, but most people visit because it's the best viewpoint in town.
Information centre. In the historic market building in the center of town, very useful, lots of local maps and information, usually has a free art exhibition.
Do[edit]
Castlemaine has a proud history including the Theatre Royal, a beacon of the gold rush days and museum.

-37.06634144.219451 Theatre Royal, 30 Hargraves St, ☏ +61 3 5472 1196. Established in 1854, the Threatre Royal is the oldest continuously operating theatre in mainland Australia. Also enjoy live music  and a European-style cafe. (updated Jul 2018)
Local markets have become more popular. There are several, and location and time can change. Good place to buy local artesian produce and meet locals.
Take the historical steam train to Maldon. The steam train is a real highlight of the region. Departs from the regular train station.
The KR Castlemaine abattoir and processing plant servicing supermarkets Australia wide. They provide guided tours every Wednesday from 2-5PM (not for the squeamish)
Swim at the indoor swimming pool In a wooden building next to the town hall,or a large outdoor pool between the botanical Gardens/ caravan park and the hospital. Many locals swim at the resevoir (aka. "The res") or other local swimming holes, but these aren't necessity safe.
Buy[edit]
There are two IGA supermarkets: a large one in the centre of town, and a small one close to the train station. Prices generally higher than in major supermarkets. Locals just call them the "big IGA" and the "small IGA" when giving directions.
Shops in the centre of town sell a wide variety of souvenirs, crafts and produce.
Khub is the local branch of the chain store Kmart, it sells cheap clothing, plastic containers, household goods. It's located in the main street across the road from the RSL.
Selfzserve Laundromat. "Sack'O'Suds". Near the little IGA. Handy if you're having lunch in town. 7 days a week, 7AM to 7PM.
Eat[edit]
Please note that the following list is not up to date, check tripadvisor. 

-37.07014144.21141 Klua Sathorn, 32 Johnstone St, ☏ +61 3 5470 6881. Cosy and authentic Thai in a historic building built during the gold rush in the mid-19th century. (updated Jul 2018)
Fish and chip shops. There are two side by side on the main street: "Blue Seas" and "Papas". Everyone in town has an opinion on which is the best.
Local cafes. As Castlemaine is a tourist town, there are many cafes in the centre of town, competition between them is fierce. Safs is expensive but the service is very good, togs is more laid back.
Pizza stores. There's a Domino's chain store that that has online ordering and delivery, and there's also a local shop "Big Jim's" which isn't open so many hours.
Das Kafehause. Beautifully decorated Viennese coffee house serving light meals, inside the mill complex, next to the botanical Gardens.
You can get a Vietnamese bahn mi roll near the pet store, they're good.
Drink[edit]
There are several local pubs that serve a variety of drinks, and also several cocktail bars in upmarket restaurants. Don't count on anywhere being busy during the week. 

Sleep[edit]
Although Castlemaine has more facilities, many visitors choose to stay in the smaller towns nearby. 

-37.06191144.218031 Castlemaine Colonial Motel, 252 Barker St, ☏ +61 3 5472 4000, motel@castlemaine.net. Free Wi-Fi and car parking. (updated Jul 2018)
Connect[edit]
Castlemaine has a very good hospital and emergency department. 
The public library has public computers for members and printers, wifi. 

Go next[edit]
If leaving by train be aware that platforms 2 and 3 are not connected to platform 1. 
Outside the station there is a tunnel with a staircase to reach platforms 2 and 3. Wheelchair access to performs 2 and 3 is only possible via a path on the platform 1 side. 
Bendigo. Regular trains run, tickets checked regularly. 
Daylesford
Chewton
Maldon






This city travel guide to Castlemaine is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Castlemaine&oldid=4862935"