
Cessnock (population 18,000) is adjacent to Australia's oldest wine growing region, the Lower Hunter Valley vineyards (including Pokolbin).  The city has a strong working-class feel, which contrasts markedly with the nearby tourist's playground that is the Lower Hunter wine country.


Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
From Sydney, Cessnock is about a 1.75 hour drive, around 150km via the M1 and B82 north.
Canberra - Cessnock = 521.7 km

By train and bus[edit]
If you're planning a public transport trip from Sydney, the most convenient method is to take the direct booked train to Morisset, on NSW Trainlink booked services.  There is a connecting bus with Rover Coaches to take you to Cessnock, and this connects with the shuttle that runs around the valley.  It is a 3 1/2 hour trip on the train and bus.
Travellers may also reach Cessnock via Newcastle by train to Maitland (followed by a bus from Maitland to Cessnock) or by bus. Rover Motors buses travel between Newcastle (departing outside Newcastle train station with a pick-up at the Hunter Street Mall bus station) and Cessnock (terminating at the Cessnock bus depot) between Monday and Friday. It is not necessary to book a seat on this bus.
Rover Motors also runs bus services within Cessnock and between Cessnock and Kurri Kurri. A number of taxis also service Cessnock.
There are no direct bus services from Sydney.
Travellers wishing to explore Pokolbin (Lower Hunter) and the neighbouring vineyards should consider hiring a car or should contact the Tourist Information Centre on Wine Country Drive for information on vineyard bus tours. There may be some smaller operators based around Kings Cross that you could try, or take an organised tour with AAT Kings. (A bit pricey but will save you a five-hour commute via woop-woop to get there.)
One other option is the Happy Cabby airport shuttle service from Sydney airport to Cessnock and the Hunter region. If you book far enough in advance (and ask nicely) they can pick you up from Central Station on the way through Sydney city.
In short, getting to Pokolbin, Wollombi Historic Village, and the Lower Hunter wine growing region is a total hassle if you don't own a car. Rent one or take a very good book with you on public transport.

Get around[edit]
Please be aware that Australia has strict drink driving laws that are policed throughout Cessnock and the Hunter Valley, so unless you have a designated driver who has agreed to stay sober, you should join an organised bus tour.
Most of the attractions of Cessnock are in the surrounding regions.  Best to drive or take the hop-on hop-off service.

See[edit]
There are a number of historically interesting buildings built between the turn of the century and the second world war that survive in the centre of Cessnock. A walking tour brochure is available from the internet cafe on the main street.
Cessnock can also be used as a base from which the surrounding vineyards can be explored. For information on the vineyards, visit the Tourist Information Centre on Wine Country Drive, Pokolbin, and be sure to pick up a free copy of the official Hunter Valley guide which lists most of the vineyards, restaurants and other attractions and includes a detailed map of the area.

Do[edit]
Cessnock is in the heart of the Hunter Valley wine-producing region, so most visitors end up doing tours of the vineyards.  Most vineyards allow tourists to casually turn up and start tasting, however an organised tour is recommended.  These tours tend to be in small groups, and have the advantage of coming with a designated driver!
The town of Cessnock is a good place to access basic services before heading into the vineyards. Banks, cheap lunches and internet access are all available on the main street, and two supermarkets stocking a wide variety of food and other necessities are also located in the centre of the town. A number of motels are also located along the main street of Cessnock which, while basic, are much more affordable than the accommodation available in Pokolbin and should be considered by anyone travelling on a budget.
As well as visiting the vineyards, visitors to Cessnock can take a hot air balloon ride over the town and Pokolbin, skydive, play aqua golf, go clay pigeon shooting, watch glass blowing, dine in one of Pokolbin's award-winning restaurants, take a horse and buggy ride, visit one of Pokolbin's boutique art galleries, visit a gourmet cheese factory or shop at one of Pokolbin's many boutiques.

Eat[edit]
 Indian on Hunter. Popular with the locals and serves inexpensive, Indian food. 
 Aloi-Thai. On Vincent Street, next to Indian on Hunter, and serves fantastic Thai food. 
 Blue Thai, Mount View Road (near Mt View High School). Also has a reputation for serving great Thai cuisine. 
 The Cessnock Supporters Club. Serves excellent Italian food of comparable quality to most of the more expensive restaurants in Pokolbin. 
 Railway Hotel, 216 Vincent St. Provides excellent drinks, food and entertainment. A small country style pub with modern and local favorite style dishes. 
PEDENS HOTEL in Vincent Street provides excellent food.. They cater for vegetarian and gluten free if requested. Bookings advisable on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights. Children welcome. Located next to The Performimg Arts Centre. Parking out the back.
However, the best food in the Hunter Valley can arguably be found in Pokolbin's restaurants, most of which are a short drive or taxi ride from Cessnock. Alternatively, try Panino's excellent restaurant at Wollombi.
For a delicious coffee and snack or lunch try GRICES BAKERY in Vincent street. Very popular with locals. Cash only but there are ATMs across the road at the Commonwealth Bank.

Drink[edit]
Vincent Street is home to a number of pubs. An excellent one to attend is Pedens Hotel. Great food and live entertainment. 
In general, these are best avoided on Friday and Saturday nights as the crowd can be rough and fights are not uncommon. However, Bellbird pub as well as Ellalong and Paxton are excellent country-style watering holes.

Sleep[edit]
There are a number of inexpensive motels on Wollombi Road, Vincent Street and Wine Country Drive. In general, these are basic but affordable and should be considered by any traveller visiting the area on a budget, as the accommodation available in Pokolbin and the vineyards can be extremely expensive. Unless there is a festival or concert in Pokolbin, it is not generally necessary to book at one of these motels in advance.
There are also a number of bed and breakfasts in the area, particularly in Nulkaba, which is a five-minute drive from Cessnock or a thirty-minute walk along Wine Country Drive. Nulkaba House in particular is beautiful. Alternatively, in historic Wollombi village, just a 15-minute drive from Pokolbin, you have a range of gorgeous, quaint and very reasonably priced B&Bs to choose from including Capers, Wild Edge Retreat, Wombledown Cottage, and at Laguna, Mulla Villa. Cedar Creek Cottages are said by the Rough Guide to be the best value in the Hunter. Their self sufficient cottages are located on a beautiful 550 acre farm and vineyard at Cedar Creek, halfway between  Wollombi and Pokolbin . Lovedale is also a beautiful area with some great places to stay.
The Wine Country Motor Inn is a motel located on the Supporters' Club complex, centrally located near the CBD of Cessnock. Perfect for those who like to watch footy and relax with a bourbon and coke.
A new backpacker's hostel has also opened in neighbouring Nulkaba, on Wine Country Drive. You can reach the hostel by taxi or bus or, if you are feeling energetic, it is a thirty-minute walk from Cessnock.

 Comfort Inn Cumberland, 57-61 Cumberland St (From Sydney, take M1 and follow signs to Cessnock. Cumberland Street runs parallel to Vincent St. Which is the main street.), ☏ +61 2 4990 6633. Check-in: 14:00 (2PM), check-out: 10:00 (10AM). Cessnock accommodation with 29 guest rooms including double, twin or family rooms. Features a pool and restaurant, close to local wine region. 
Go next[edit]
There are a number of things to do around Cessnock:

Winetasting, skydiving, visiting galleries and shops, clay pigeon shooting, horse and buggy rides, aqua golf, hot air balloon rides, horse riding and restaurant dining in Pokolbin
Visit the beach, historic Fort Scratchley, the cafes and boutiques on Darby Street, the art gallery and the restaurants at Honeysuckle in Newcastle
Day trip to the historic village of Wollombi - get off the beaten path and experience true country hospitality. Wine taste at Stonehurst (94 points-James Halliday),visit the historic cemetery, lunch at the excellent cafes or old pub and visit Wollombi's tiny museum.
Antique shopping in Morpeth, just outside of Maitland.
Since the completion of the new expressway visitors to Cessnock have a quicker access to other areas of the Hunter Valley. Base yourself in Cessnock and enjoy a day trip to the Hunter.






This city travel guide to Cessnock is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Cessnock&oldid=4382804"