
Cherry Hill is a township of about 75,000 people. people in Camden County, New Jersey


Understand[edit]
The area now known as Cherry Hill was originally settled by the Lenni-Lenape Native Americans who coexisted peacefully with the first settlers from England, Quaker followers of William Penn who arrived in the late 1600s. The first settlement was a small cluster of homes named Colestown, on the perimeter of what is now the Colestown Cemetery on the corner of Route 41 which is also known as King's Highway and Church Road. The municipality was founded on February 25, 1844, in Gloucester County as Delaware Township from half of the area of Waterford Township, and became part of Camden County at its creation some two weeks later on March 13, 1844. The township underwent explosive growth in the post-World War II era, with continued population growth until the 1980s. Today, the municipality's population remains stable with new development generally occurring in small pockets of custom luxury homes or through the rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of existing commercial and industrial areas.

Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
PATCO train at Woodcrest station
The PATCO high-speed commuter rail line has a stop at Woodcrest Station in Cherry Hill. This train connects to Philadelphia, Lindenwold, Camden, and Haddonfield. The train is a very fast and easy commute option, which is twenty four hours a day and seven days a week!  The fare for the PATCO rail line ranges from $1.25 to $2.70, for one way tickets.  However, for round trips the ticket price ranges from $2.50 to $5.40. These are very affordable prices!

39.8704-75.01121 Woodcrest railway station, 200 Tindale Drive.   (updated Aug 2020)
New Jersey Transit's Atlantic City Rail Line has a stop in Cherry Hill at Marlton Pike (Route 70) and Cornell Avenue.  This train connects Cherry Hill with Atlantic City's rail terminal to the east, and Philadelphia's 30th Street Station to the west, the latter which has connections to Amtrak.  This is a slightly more expensive option, but puts you in the heart of Cherry Hill and access is available to more locations. The train does not come often so be sure to check the schedule online in advance.

39.9283-75.04172 Cherry Hill railway station, 3 Union Ave.   (updated Aug 2020)
By car[edit]
The New Jersey Turnpike passes through Cherry Hill, with Exit 4 connecting to NJ Route 73.
Interstate 295 has three exits in Cherry Hill. Exit 34A/B at Route 70 (Marlton Pike); exit 32 at CR 561 (Haddonfield-Berlin Rd.); and exit 31 at Woodcrest station.
By bus[edit]
The New Jersey Transit is the bus company that services Cherry Hill. It has a stop at the Cherry Hill Mall, and also stops in Pennsauken, Merchantville, Camden and Philadelphia, which are all the surrounding areas. The fare for the bus varies depending how far the distance from Cherry Hill. New Jersey Transit offers many discounted packages for frequent riders, such as family super savers, student monthly passes, reduced fare for seniors and riders with disabilities, also for military personnel and their dependents.

Get around[edit]
Map of Cherry Hill


See[edit]
Main entrance of Congregation M'Kor Shalom
39.905064-74.9981751 Barclay Farmstead Museum, 209 Barclay Lane. A historical oasis in Cherry Hill. It was built in 1816 by a Quaker farmer, Joseph Thorn, the farmhouse and surrounding 32-acre property offers visitors and tourists an opportunity to observe and participate in the agrarian lifestyle that once dominated the South Jersey landscape. The homestead gives group tours, and school tours. Cherry Hill has sponsored an Plant a Patch,each season between April through October, more than one hundred gardeners maintain and harvest their own garden plots on original farm fields.   (updated Aug 2020)
39.9124-74.9672 Garden State Discovery Museum, 2040 Springdale Road. A hands-on celebration of imagination, a place where children infant through 10 years old will discover a world just their size and adults can share in those discoveries. Spend some time touring the museum, as well as joining one of the many educational workshops and performances for children. This museum also features a gift shop, to buy items to remember your experience. Locals can host parties in one of their many private party rooms! There is a snack area and best of all a lot of free parking! Admission is $9.95 for adults and children 12 months and over, and for seniors is $8.95.The museum team will be there to support and enhance each visitor’s experience, taking an active role in your families’ education, growth and imaginative play.   
 Holocaust Education Center, 1301 Springdale Road. This education center features exhibits, and a variety of educational materials and programs to educate the public about the horrors of the holocaust in memoriam of those who lost their lives or loved ones in the event, as well as in the hope that through learning from the horrific crimes and mistakes of the past that such history will not be repeated. Very educational and informative. 
Do[edit]
Wine Room - Hosts wine events for private groups, as well as offering group winemaking courses for families, friends or co-workers, and wine and food seminars that are held in a setting that recalls a beautiful Tuscan village. It is located at 1 Esterbrook Lane. They provide you with professional winery equipment to use, including authentic wine presses from Italy. You will bottle your own wine with personalized labels so you can proudly share your vintage at casual gatherings or special occasions with guests, clients, or anyone who appreciates fine wine. The price of average total cost for making a half barrel of wine is $1,100 and $2,100 for a full barrel. Since each barrel yields 20 cases which is 240 bottles, that breaks down to less than $10 per bottle. This is an extremely good savings, as you are hand-crafting wine that is easily comparable to $25 bottles from a liquor store. Overall, it seems expensive however you are really saving money when you purchase in a bulk amount.
 The Big Event Bowling Alley, 1536 North Kings Highway. This is a great place to go for a night out. The Big Event offers 36 lanes, automatic scoring, billiards, ATMs on site, great menu selection, and amusement game arcade. The Big Event also has ramps for physically challenged, and their new addition is wireless internet. It is a smoke free facility. (updated Jan 2018)
Cherry Hill Racquet Club - This family oriented health club has served the Cherry Hill area for almost thirty years, and caters to all levels of fitness. Features include tennis and racquetball courts and instruction. They offer a two week guest pass, which is a great offer for tourists.
 Historic Croft Farm, 100 Borton Mill Evans Mill Road. This eighty-acre site was once the site of a working farm and mill and a stop on the Underground Railroad, it now functions as a vibrant arts center. This is once a slave exchange site, where the slaves were hidden. The grounds are centered around a sixteen-room farmhouse, the original section of which was constructed in 1753. The site is now home to the Cherry Hill Arts Center. 
Buy[edit]
Cherry Hill Mall
 Cherry Hill Mall, 2000 Route 38, ☏ +1 856 662-7440. M-Sa 10AM-9:30PM, Su 11AM-6PM. The first enclosed shopping center on the East Coast, Cherry Hill Mall has long been a major shopping destination to some of the most affluent neighborhoods in southern New Jersey.  The mall is anchored by department stores JCPenney, Macy's, and Nordstrom and has over 160 stores.  It is also home to several restaurants including Maggiano's Little Italy and Bahama Breeze. (updated Mar 2017)
 Towne Place at Garden State Park, 999 Haddonfield Rd, ☏ +1 856 662-1600. Opened in 2007.  A "pedestrian-friendly village".  The focal point of Garden State Park is the 285,000 square foot Towne Place featuring the nation’s top of the line retailers and restaurants, including Barnes & Noble, The Cheesecake Factory, Brio, Talbot’s, J. Jill and other industry leaders. Towne Place is further supported by the 530,000 square foot Market Place including, Wegman’s, among several others. The towne place essentially provides Cherry Hill with its first ever "downtown" environment.  This site used to be occupied by the former Garden State Race Track, which closed in 2001. (updated Mar 2017)
Eat[edit]
There are many bar and grill hot spots in Cherry Hill. Bar and grills are great because you get the best of both worlds, great food and great drinks all at one place! Here are few of those hot spots to visit while you are in Cherry Hill:

 Top Dog (formerly Taylor's), 2310 West Marlton Pike, ☏ +1 856-486-1001. This restaurant offers full bar service, live musical entertainment, sports on a number of flat screen televisions, and a menu with a wonderful of entrees such as soups, salads, sandwiches, hamburgers, chicken, hot dogs, deli fare, pizzas, side dishes, desserts, and a host of wonderful entrees, including steaks, ribs, chicken, seafood, pasta dishes, vegetarian dishes. They also host a night club on the weekends on their top floor, which is the hot spot on the weekends! (updated Sep 2018)
 Famous Dave's, 104 Route 70 East, ☏ +1 856-857-1520. This restaurant is known for their great bar-b-que menu! Along with gret bar-b-que, they have a full bar with great specialty drinks. They offer family size meals and are moderately affordable, they also offer take out! 
Drink[edit]
 Bahama Breeze, 2000 Route 38, ☏ +1 856-317-8317. Offers authentic Caribbean items on the menu, which are excellent. They also so have a great bar selection, and server up drinks with a Caribbean twist to them! It is an island style atmosphere, which is very relaxing! 
Sleep[edit]
 American Best Value, 2389 Route 70 West. There is an outdoor pool on site. Every morning, a complimentary continental breakfast is served, along with a morning newspaper. All rooms have cable TV, clock radios, coffeemakers, and electronic locks. 
 Clarion Hotel, 1450 Route 70 East. The amenities include a full service restaurant, room service, pub, fitness room, outdoor pool, tennis courts, tour desk, interior corridors, gift shop, free weekday newspapers, in room safes, wake-up calls, and free parking. 
Crowne Plaza, 2349 West Marlton Pike. All rooms feature marble-topped vanities, cable TV, in-room movies, complimentary wireless Internet access, multi-line phones, voice mail, armchairs and ottomans, coffeemakers, irons and ironing boards, hairdryers, and individual climate control.
 Extended Stay America, 1653 East State Highway 70. 
 Holiday Inn - Philadelphia-Cherry Hill, 2175 West Marlton Pike, ☏ +1 856-663-5300. The Holiday Inn Philadelphia-Cherry Hill Hotel is located conveniently near all the attractions of Philadelphia. Enjoy comfort and service at this hotel offering many special packages and onsite amenities. 
Holiday Inn, 2175 Martin Heights.
 Residence Inn, 1821 Old Cuthbert Road. 
Cope[edit]
Cherry Public Library - The library provides innovative technologies, and a wide-range of programs to meet the informational, educational and cultural interests of the community. The library also offers many events and classes such as Microsoft Word, basic mouse and keyboard skills, Terrific Tales for 2 to 3 year olds. The Cherry Hill public library provides citizens with information about their community, and offer classes for seniors as well. The library caters to and host events for all ages, as well as for the family.
Stay safe[edit]
Overall, Cherry Hill is a pretty safe environment, and the residents have a great relationship with each other. Cherry Hill is a very close-knit community, which makes for a better living environment.

Go next[edit]


Routes through Cherry Hill




Trenton  ←

 N  S 

→ Haddonfield → Newport


New York City ← Bordentown ←

 N  S 

→ Runnemede → New Castle


END ← Pennsauken ←

 W  E 

→ Medford → Toms River


Philadelphia ← Pennsauken ←

 NW  SE 

→ Lindenwold → Atlantic City


Philadelphia ← Haddonfield ←

 NW  SE 

→ Lindenwold → END









This city travel guide to Cherry Hill is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Cherry_Hill&oldid=4878343"