
Chimayó is a small town in North Central New Mexico. At the base of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, Chimayó is most well-known for its famed church that has a reputation for delivering miracles.  Originally a Spanish farming settlement, Chimayó is part of a string of villages along NM 76 that haven't changed much over the course of time, offering a unique look at life in such a setting.   


Get in[edit]
Map of Chimayó
Albuquerque is the nearest city with a major airport, although  Santa Fe has off-again, on-again commercial jet service as well.  Chimayó is reachable from Santa Fe on good and scenic 2-lane roads, but be a bit careful driving on them in the winter, as this is high country and mountain snowstorms can make a nasty mess out of a good road in remarkably short order.  NM 76 east from Española or NM 503 northeast from Pojoaque will bring you to Chimayó.  The NCRTD provides a free bus service on weekdays to Española, with connections to Santa Fe, Taos, and other communities in North Central New Mexico.

See[edit]
Santuario de Chimayo
35.989167-105.9316671 Santuario de Chimayo. More completely named "El Santuario de Nuestro Señor de Esquipulas," the Santuario is a church that dates to the Spanish mission period with a remarkable reputation for miracles, including healing the sick and lame. It's located on the outskirts of the small town, just off NM 503 on the south side of the village, and can be visited for free during daylight hours, although donations are appreciated. The Santuario is quite famous among the towns of the mountains and is the destination for a unique pilgrimage during the week before Easter (see below under Do).   (updated Aug 2016)
Do[edit]
Santuario de Chimayó is the destination for pilgrims who hike (sometimes for several days and many tens of miles) along the highways from the surrounding area as a gesture of faith and also in the hopes of taking advantage of the church's reputation for miraculous cures.  If you're Catholic and have some time leading up to Easter, consider joining the throng; if you're just driving in the area then, be extra careful of pedestrians.
Buy[edit]
Chimayo blankets, textiles superficially similar to Navajo rugs but woven by descendants of Spanish settlers and much less complex; $50 will buy a good example.  Weavers of the Cordova family are considered particularly proficient, and their work can be a little more expensive, but you get what you pay for.
Eat[edit]
35.994318-105.9305921 Rancho de Chimayo, 300 Santa Fe County Rd 98, ☏ +1 505 984-2100 (reservations advised). Hours vary seasonally; call or visit their web site. Definitive "New Mexican" cuisine (stuffed sopapillas, red and green chile, etc.) in a gorgeous setting. Dinner entrees average around $10. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
36.007903-105.9324691 Casa Escondida, 64 Co Rd 100, ☏ +1 505-351-4805. 
35.999492-105.9312782 Rancho Manzana, 26 Camino de Mision, toll-free: +1 888-505-2227, ranchomanzana@gmail.com. 
Connect[edit]
Stay safe[edit]
Chimayó has a lamentably well-founded reputation as a center for narcotics trafficking, being on the "pipeline" for drugs coming into the United States from Mexico.  Mind your own business and you won't have any problems, but this is a place where you do not want to interrupt a drug transaction, even inadvertently.  Keeping a low profile in town (which mainly means sticking to the main road) is a very good idea.

Go next[edit]
Española is just to the west on NM 76 and serves as the primary commercial center for the immediate area, with more dining and lodging options. Chimayó is situated near the base of the High Road to Taos, a set of roads that lead through several historic and predominately Hispanic villages along the Sangre de Cristo Mountains between Española and Taos. NM 76 continues northeast from Chimayó, climbing a steep and winding road to the village of Truchas, where you will get a spectacular view over the valley and the surrounding mountains. From there, it continues into the mountains through several more villages before reaching Taos; detailed directions for the route can be found on the North Central New Mexico page.






This city travel guide to Chimayó is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Chimayó&oldid=4065926"