
Chomrong is a village in the Annapurna area of Nepal, and a popular overnight stop for those walking the Annapurna sanctuary trek.  The village is spread over a hillside that has stunning views of the Annapurnas and Machupachare. Views are particularly good in the early morning. 


Understand[edit]
Looking north from Chomrong, you see Annapurna and Machapuchare towering over the countryside. There are huge rhododendrons around the village bloom with bright flowers in season. 
A huge staircase leads down to a river, where a bridge next to a slope that leads you towards Sinuwa. The steps are not of an even size, so returning to the village will be a strain.

Get in[edit]
The only way to get to Chomrong is on foot. There are no roads or air strips. 

Get around[edit]
Just like getting to Chomrong the only way around is on foot.

See[edit]
View from the village.
View of Annapurna from the village.
The Himalaya of course. Annapurna South, Hiunchuli and Machupacharre are all visible from here.

Do[edit]
Relax after a hard day's trekking and eat chocolate cake at Chomrong Cottage. 

Buy[edit]
There are shops that sell trekking supplies and a dispensary that stocks various pills and potions.  Next to the chautara at the first cluster of hotels is a small souvenir shop selling the usual knick knacks and a clean drinking water station. Most hotels also sell filtered water. 

Eat[edit]
All hotels have attached restaurants and like elsewhere in the mountains of Nepal the expectation is that you have your meals at the place you are staying.

Drink[edit]
The Himal bar and cafe seems to be the only independent watering hole in town it has a pool table down stairs. It is 

near the Lucky Guest House. 

Sleep[edit]
Just before you enter Chomrong there are two hotels 

 Summit View Lodge. 
 Heaven View Guest House. 
After another five minutes walk you get to the first group of hotels that get views of the Annapurnas:

 Panorama Point Lodge. 
 Himalaya View Guest House. 
 Fishtail Guest House. 
From here it's a four- to five-minute walk to the next cluster of lodges and this is also the point where the staircase down to the river starts.

 Excellent View Top Lodge. There have been reports of travellers having trouble after eating the food at this lodge, so be mindful of this. 
 International Guest House. 
 Kalpana Guest House. 
 Mountain View Lodge. 
 Lucky Guest House, ☏ +977 9846054685. 
 Moonlight Lodge. Advertises that they were "Lodge of the year" in 1997. 
 Elysium Guesthouse. 
28.4283.81751 Chomrong Cottage, ☏ +97 5600 0211. Run by a pleasant family and rightly famous for their food including their chocolate cake that they bake fresh every day. Singles/Doubles with common bathroom Rs100/200. Two rooms with en suite bathrooms. 
 Chomrong Guest House. 
Go next[edit]
If walking towards the Annapurna Sanctuary the next village is Sinuwa about 1½ hours away. 
In the opposite direction it is approximately 4 hours to Gandruk, 6-8 hours to the road at Nayapul and two days to Phedi.






This city travel guide to Chomrong is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Chomrong&oldid=3981650"