
Clare is a town of 3,200 people (2016) in the Clare Valley. Clare is the main tourist centre of the Clare Valley. It's a base for exploring the area's wineries, breweries, and national parks.


Understand[edit]
Bentley Hotel
The town was established in 1842 by Edward Burton Gleeson, and named after his ancestral home of County Clare in Ireland. The layout of the town's road system was apparently designed by a draughtsman in Adelaide, without any knowledge of the local geography. There are several roads in Clare that end abruptly at a cliff face, only to continue again at the top of the cliff.
Clare is an administrative and service centre for the surrounding area. It has two supermarkets, many other specialty stores, two public and two private schools, three hotels, two motels, a caravan park, race course and showground.

Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
Clare is around 90 minutes' drive north from Adelaide (136 km north of Adelaide), and add another 15-30 minutes on to that if you're going to the airport or if there is traffic.
You'll enter the Clare Valley from Adelaide at Auburn, which is a pretty town.  Be prepared to spend some time exploring on the last part of the trip.

By bus[edit]
Although there is an infrequent bus service to Clare from Adelaide.  Given the nature of the destination, you are going to either need a car or be on a tour.

Get around[edit]
By car[edit]
The B82 runs through Clare, all surrounding areas are generally accessible by good sealed roads.

By taxi[edit]
 Clare Valley Taxis, ☏ +61 8 8842 1400. 24 hours, 7 days. Does taxis, also does wine tours and has an 11-passenger minibus available for service. (updated Feb 2018)
By bike[edit]
Given the proximity of the Reisling Trail to Clare, there are many options for bicycle hire around town.  With the exception of the main highway, the streets are wide and quiet, and getting around town by bicycle is easy.

See[edit]
Spring Gully Conservation Park
Do[edit]
Clare has become recognised for its 'experiences', including the Riesling Trail walking and cycling route from 9 km north of Clare to Auburn (25 km), on the former railway alignment, so named as it weaves past vineyards and wineries, and continuing to Riverton as the Rattler Trail.
The Riesling Trail also makes up a small section of the popular, 900 km (560 mi) Mawson Trail which stretches up to the Flinders Ranges.
Clare is the starting point of the Lavender Federation Trail which traverses the eastern side of the Mount Lofty Ranges past the Barossa Valley through to Murray Bridge.
The Clare Valley wine region continues within the same line of hills as the famous Barossa Valley, and also produces some excellent wine.
There are several bike hire options in Clare:
Clare Valley Cycle Hire
Riesling Trail Bike Hire.  Will pick up and drop off at your accommodation for no extra charge. $40 per day.
The surrounding area has great mountain biking opportunities, for when you've finished on the gravel trail.

Buy[edit]
 Target Country – Clare, Main North Road, ☏ +61 8 8841 2300. M-F 8AM – 6PM, Sa 8AM – 5PM, Su 10AM – 5PM. (updated Feb 2018)
Eat[edit]
Seed is probably the most upscale dining in Clare.  Book ahead on weekends and holidays.
Panchos is the casual pizza place in the centre of town.  Serves pasta and a few other things too.  Has some tables to sit at inside, but order at the counter and then grab a table in front.
Drink[edit]
Middle Pub is the best pub for visitors in the town proper.  Casual mix of locals and visitors.  Some nice food available.
Sevenhill Hotel is a couple of minutes south of on the main road.  Huge variety of local wines.  You can even book a table in their wine cellar, and pick your bottle straight off the shelves.  Local beer brews available too - some seasonal and not available elsewhere.  Food is a mix of the pub classics, and some more elegant fare.
Sleep[edit]
Clare has a pub accommodation, motel accommodation and cottages.

 Clare Country Club, White Hut Rd (Around 2 km walk (or ride) into town.), ☏ +61 8 8842 1060. nice motel style accommodation in a golf course and park setting. Buzzing restaurant, with wine tasting in the season. Rental bikes available. (updated Nov 2021)
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Clare is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Clare_(South_Australia)&oldid=4325144"