
Coron is a town in the province of Palawan on Busuanga Island.  The area is famous for its World War II wreck diving, and the site has been named in many lists of top dive spots in the world. There are many beautiful white sand beaches, mostly tiny and surrounded by large limestone cliffs and wildlife.


Understand[edit]
Coron from Mount Tapyas
Coron is the name of the largest town (population 52,000 in 2015) on Busuanga Island, and the name of a smaller island just offshore.
In September 1944, a fleet of Japanese ships hiding in the harbor were sunk in a daring raid by the US Navy. The result is around ten well-preserved shipwrecks in fairly shallow water (10-40m) surrounded with coral reef.
Barracuda and Kayangan lakes on Coron Island are stunning locations, and good for snorkeling, and the island is the ancestral domain of an indigenous tribe who are managing the island in a sustainable way and keeping outsiders at a distance and offshore at night.

History[edit]
The first inhabitants of Coron were the Tagbanuas who belong to the second wave of Austronesians who migrated to this area some 5,000 years ago.  They were a nomadic, seafaring people, living mainly by fishing and subsistence agriculture.  Although they are now sedentary (with the young using cell phones, etc.), they maintain many of their old customs, traditions and beliefs. Today, the Tagbanuas remain the dominant if not entire population of Coron.


In 1902, Coron was registered as a town and its name was changed from "Penon de Coron" to "Coron".
From 1939 to the outbreak of World War II, the municipality experienced the mining boom.  Labor shifted from farming to mining.  In July 1942, the Japanese occupied the mining camps and resumed operation of the manganese mines.  On September 24, 1944, a group of Japanese ships were sunk by American warplanes in Coron waters as the ships retreated from Manila Bay.  About 10 or 12 of these World War II Japanese shipwrecks comprise what is considered one of the best dive sites in the world.
In 1947, large scale deep sea fishing was introduced to Coron, and the town experienced another boom, a fishing boom.  The population increased, as many people from Luzon and the Visayas came to work either as fishermen or miners.

Banca Boat
Coron used to be virtually unknown outside of Palawan. It remains a small, quaint fishing town with laid back charm but with increasing media exposure it is growing, slowly but steadily,  Coron has taken an important position in the tourism industry. There has been a rapid influx of scuba divers and other tourists coming in, making tourism the major industry player in Coron today.

Get in[edit]
11°59′51″N 120°12′20″EMap of Coron
By plane[edit]
12.121389120.11 Francisco B. Reyes Airport (Busuanga Airport, USU IATA). PAL Express and Cebu Pacific provides frequent flights from Manila. Air Juan has flights from Puerto Princesa and Caticlan (Boracay), which takes 75 minutes, only on Tuesdays and Fridays.   (updated Feb 2019)
There are van transfers from the airport to the town, which cost ₱250 per head (₱2000 for the whole van).

By boat[edit]
2GO Travel From Manila and Puerto Princesa.  one 2GO ferry Leave Manila on Friday afternoon (4:15PM) and arrive in Coron early Saturday morning (5:30AM). Departs Puerto Princesa on Saturday night (board at 9-10PM) and heads back to Coron, arriving 3PM Sunday, and then continues on to Manila. 2GO Travel have two ferries a week.
Atienza Shipping Lines[dead link] has two ships from Manila stopping in Coron and other Palawan destinations. They transport cargo and passengers. M/V April Rose departs Wednesdays at 6PM and the journey takes about 18 hours. Economy class ticket ₱1000, AC class ticket ₱1150. The bunks are the same in both classes, but AC class is out of the wind and engine noise. M/V May Lily also sails. The Atienza website is inaccurate, so call them to confirm the schedule on +63 9998817266 (Manila). Departs in front of their office (green container): 1st Street Muelle del Rio corner Tacoma, Port Area, Manila
Pump boats: Larger pump boats (motor bancas) depart most days of the week from El Nido to Coron and vice versa. The day trip takes 7–8 hours and bookings can be made at various tourist offices or just drop by the Port Area (Philippine Ports Authority) as early as 6AM to catch the trip. The costs vary from ₱1200 to ₱1400 and departures vary between 7:30-9AM, depending on the carrier. The fare includes a hearty hot meal. These are larger comfortable boats, built for ferrying passengers. The scenery during this daytime trip is beautiful.
Wave & Hannah: El Nido to Coron/Linapacan - Su W F 9AM. From Coron to El Nido/Linapacan - Tu Th Sa 9AM. ₱1400 ☏ +63 949-144-1677 or  ☏ +63 916-543-5146.
Island Commander. (120 passengers - two stories):  El Nido to Coron Tu Su 8:30AM.   Coron to El Nido M Sa 8:30AM.
Overcomer motor bancas: El Nido to Coron - M 8AM, W 7:30AM, Th 8AM.  Coron to El Nido - Tu 8AM, Th 7:30AM, F 8AM.  ☏ +63 999-978-8564.
Montenegro Shipping Lines There is a daily ro-ro vessel trip from San Jose, Occidental Mindoro to Coron catering to passenger and rolling-cargo.  The ship departs daily (Wednesday to Sunday) from San Jose at 6AM and arrives Coron at around 10AM.  Trip back to San Jose will depart Coron 4PM and arrives San Jose at around 8PM.  San Jose to Cubao, Quezon City buses await passengers going to Metro Manila via Calapan-Batangas City ro-ro travel. The Coron to Cubao trip and vice-versa will cost at least ₱1600.
Bunso Transport ☏ +63 94 62635838. Operate pump boats from San Jose three times a week (7 hr, ₱800).
Get around[edit]

Tricycles are everywhere downtown. ₱30 for rides around town (per person), ₱30 total from port to town.
Motorcycles and vans are available for rent.
There are no taxis in Coron.
There is only once a day trip for buses or jeepneys Coron going to Busuanga and other areas.
See[edit]
There is a cross on the mountain above town, Mt.Tapyas. You can look at it from below or climb up the path. The climb up is worth to see the view of the small islands surrounded by glass-like water.
Coron sign Noticeable from the water is a Hollywood-style sign up on a hill overlooking the town.
Mangroves, natural mangroves are abundant, with magnificent kayak paddling trails.  (Local mangrove kayaking tours are available through Kingfisher Park.)
Kayangan Lake ₱280 entrance fee (Oct 2018). A ticket card must be bought in town prior to your trip, ask at one of the agencies unless you have a tour-guide who will arrange for it. Before approaching the lake, go over the cave and glimpse at the great view on top of the mountain. This view is the most photographed area in Palawan. It is also judged as the cleanest lake in the country.
Twin Lagoon. The water and towering rocks are great photos (e.g. for posters.)  On low tide, experience kayaking under the hole of the rock. At high tide, one can swim through the hole of the rock or a walkway can be used to get to the other side of the lagoon.  ₱100 entrance fee.
Barracuda Lake is amazing. Entrance is ₱180, no longer purchasable on site, see Kayangan Lake for same info. Bring goggles or snorkels to observe underwater rock formations.
CYC Island is nice but gets very busy. It's the only free beach in the area. Entrance fees for the other beaches aren't too steep (₱100).
Banol is very picturesque with its flower trees set against the rocky island. It has sugary fine white sand in its beachline.
Beach 69 is not as good as Banol. Free if you come from Kayangan lake, however seems unmaintained. Beware of jellyfishes
7-Islands, aka Siete Pecados is an excellent snorkeling spot with one of the liveliest reefs in the area, also check Do section for more info. It was popularized by the shoot of a local television show of a mermaid love story. A local myth says that seven kids swam from the main island to escape it and follow their parents. They drowned and the place where they drowned is where the islands (or rocks) are now. (₱100).
Do[edit]
Island hopping[edit]
Head down to the Market Pier and rent an authentic Filipino bangka and captain (standardized rental costs vary by destination) Boats generally handle around 6 passengers. It costs ₱1500 to rent a bangka - irrespective of whether you rent it for half a day or full day. Click here for the current official boat rates[dead link]. Grab a lunch before you head out, as food is rarely available on any of the outlying islands. You can also buy meat, fish, veggies from the wet market and request the boat captain to barbecue or cook them for you or your group.

Coron Island - is a black limestone island with breathtaking cliffs cascading down to 13 magnificent lakes (only two open to public) and powder white sand coral beaches. It is the home to local attractions Kayangan Lake, Barracuda Lake, Banol Beach, Twin Lagoon, and numerous snorkeling areas. These are the most popular and thus most frequented destinations by tourist boats. If you feel a bit more adventurous or just like to avoid the tourist boats, there is a possibility of renting a kayak in town (ask around at the boat loading area ~ ₱500 including compulsory safety vest) and cross the 4-km-wide strait to Coron island by paddelling (about 1 hr without training), however this is only advisable at smooth weather conditions. For the island bring mask, fins, and snorkel to observe underwater rock formations and some stunning coral reef cliffs. There is a pronounced thermocline, as the island's geothermal energy heats up the water as you descend into the lakes and water around the island. It is the ancestral home of the local Tagbanua people group.
11.98357120.230751 Siete Pecadoes aka Seven Islands. Among the best and easiest to access sites to snorkel in Coron. It is 3.5 km east of Coron town, and 200 m from the closest beach. It is easily accessible by snorkelling straight from the beach as the reef starts right in front of it. Experience swimming in an aquarium, beautiful corals and a great variety of fishes. There is a caretaker who will collect ₱100 from tourists, but mostly enforced when arriving via tourist boats. Anytime at daylight is good for snorkelling. Current can sometimes be strong. 
Culion Island - the former leper colony. Offers a medical museum and presentation of the old leper colony highlighting the cure of leprosy. Culion Island also offers some beaches and numerous sites for snorkelling and diving, including shipwrecks, accommodation is available. The ferry is operated by Montenegro Shipping and leaves Coron port daily at 6AM, 10AM and 2PM and returns at 8AM, noon and 4PM, duration about 1½ hr. The fare is ₱279 (Oct 2018).
CYC Island - is nice but gets very busy. It's the only free beach in the area. Entrance fees for the other beaches aren't too steep (₱100).
 Smiths Island. A small island with white sand beach. A caretaker family stays there during the day, and sells snacks and drinks. Thare are stunning views of white sands and blue seas. The fee to spend some time here is ₱100 per head. You can reach it while island-hopping on a bangka. It takes 20 minutes sailing from Kayangan lake to reach here. 
Sangat Island - Black limestone island with white sand beaches near most of the major World War II wrecks in the area.
Malcapuya Island - Beautiful island with very fine white sand beach just like Boracay (or better) but without construction. Entrance is ₱150-200 and is included in tour prices.
Banana Island - A longer boat trip from town is beautiful Banana Island, with its white sand beaches and numerous Pacific Giant Clams. Local accommodations are recommended as it is far from Coron, but it is available as a tour along with Malcapuya.
Bulog Beach - Visited as part of a tour along with Banana Island and Malcapuya Beach. It's a very small but stunning beach and you'll likely have it all to yourself.
Black Island - Another limestone island with white sand beaches far from town. Nearby are tourist attractions North Kay and Calauit Wildlife Sanctuary. Local accommodations recommended as it is far from Coron.
NOT EXISTING LISTING IMAGE Cheron Island. Directly opposite Malcapuya Island. It has a plat of white sand, outgoing into the sea. Fee — ₱500 for 4 persons. (updated Dec 2018)
Diving[edit]
Lots of wreck diving and some decent coral as well. Discovery Divers (on the beautiful 'Discovery Island') and Sea Dive are the big ones, and Coron Divers the cheapest one in the island. There are 6 big wrecks and 2 smaller gunboats, all bombed on 24 September 1944 by the Allied Forces, and they are well worth diving on!





Wreck diving
Diving near wrecks is quite safe, provided you keep enough distance not to get tangled on anything.
However, if you want to go inside wrecks, doing that safely requires quite advanced diving skills. If you are only "open water" certified, you should allow time for additional training before you attempt it. Without that, you should very definitely not risk it.


 Coron Divers. The only dive center owned by a Filipino. Arni is the big boss. Everything makes you feel in a Filipino family (even more if you stay at Chinette's Coron Reef Pension, 10 m away in front of Coron Divers). Reported to use broken equipment and some boats not built for diving. It's the only dive outfit in town run by Filipinos and also the cheapest. 
 Discovery Divers. Tucked away on 'Discovery Island' a 10-minute boat ride from the pier. Talk to Vivian in Coron town at the Discovery Bar or get to the pier around 8AM to catch the boat out. Gunter is a great guy with a lot of experience in the area. 
 Rocksteady Dive Center. Rocksteady is professionally run by a friendly and very competent German instructor. Rocksteady is almost a kilometer from the town center, very near the hospital. 
11.9989120.204142 Neptune Dive Center, ☏ +63 921-760-7492, info@neptunedivecenter.com. 8AM-7PM. Neptune Dive Center is one of the newer dive shops in Coron, but is owned and operated by a team that has been living and diving there for years. Emphasis is on small groups and personal service. Neptune Dive Center is the only purpose built dive shop in Coron. Prices are mid-range compared to the other dive shops in the area. 
 [dead link] SeaDive, ☏ +63 9209458714. They have the only recompression chamber in all of Palawan onsite. The biggest dive shop in town, with divemasters who claim to have over 10,000 dives on the Coron wrecks. Priced higher than the other dive shops. Known for crowded boats and high divemaster to diver ratios. 
11.9331120.04543 Chindonan Island Resort & Divecenter (Chindonan Divecenter), Chindonan Island (45 min from Coron to Chindonan Island), ☏ +63 9477 8538 76, chindonan@gmail.com. In Coron Bay, it is known for its great location towards all shipwrecks. It takes 10-20 min to get to your favorite shipwreck. A dive team there is known for its great service. 
Other activities[edit]
 Freediving, ☏ +63 917 432 4911, dive@JustOneBreath.com. AIDA Freediving courses. Learn how to do breath hold diving and visit the wrecks without tanks. AIDA* to AIDA*** courses available, duration from one to three days. 
 [formerly dead link] Kingfisher Park. Offering guided mangrove kayak tours (₱500), trekking Mt Lunes Santo and bamboo cooked lunch (₱500), and Starry Starry Night mangrove firefly/plankton cruises (₱200). visit the website for tour booking details. 
Maquinit Hot Spring. Offering large pools warmed by the geothermal water spring in the area.  The hottest pools cascade into a large pool that empties into the ocean.  Beautiful place to hang out in the evening after a long day of activities. (entrance ₱300, Mar 2024) Accessible by boat or by tricycle from town. Tricycle is normally ₱700-1000 (4 passengers) including bringing you back to town after 1–3 hours.(2011)
Banol Beach Gorgeous white sand beach. Accessible by boat from Coron, about 20 min away, features limestone cliffs going down to this beautiful white sand beach adorned with numerous large Kalachuchi flower trees and tamarind trees. Nipa huts for lunch are located in the shade of the Kalachuchi trees. Entrance ₱100.
Skeleton Wreck is a snorkeling destination near Banol Beach off the coast of Coron Island where there is an old fishing boat wreck.  Around it are beautiful corals. Beware of sea urchins.  Entrance ₱100.
Atwayan Beach located on the backside of the Skeleton Wreck island near Banol Beach, Atwayan Beach features Nipa huts to have lunch, and a beach volleyball court.  Entrance ₱100.
Beach 91 is not as good as Banol. Free if you come from Kayangan Lake however seems unmaintained. Beware of jellyfishes.
Mt. Tapyas hike - If you are staying in the Coron main town, you can walk to the foot of Mt. Tapyas or grab a tricycle for ₱8 (2011). The hike reportedly is about 700 stairs to the top, the entrance is found at the side of community basketball court. Experience a breathtaking view of the sunset, recommended to start setting out at 4PM.
Horseback riding
Mountain bike tours
Jungle Treks
Calauit Wildlife An island inhabited by imported African wildlife living in harmony with Palawan wildlife.  Safari tours available. (local accommodation is required as it is about a 4-hour boat trip from Coron)
Kawayanan Resort. Relaxing and quiet place to have peace on the sand. Tree house is way better to experience facing the Coron Reef. 6 km away from Coron town. 200 m away from Hotsprings
Buy[edit]
The Market Pier is home to shops, stalls, slaughter houses, diners, and karaoke. Great for hearing early morning karaoke and picking up supplies. The smell can get pretty bad close to the slaughter houses.

Water - aquapure can hook you up with large containers of water and you can buy bottles basically anywhere in 500 mL, 1 L and 4 L sizes.
Drugstores - plentiful. Contrary to what you may hear you can buy sunscreen, Off (bug repellant), shampoo and all that other good drugstore stuff.
Cashew nuts - A must try when you are in Coron. Better than what you can buy in your local supermarket!
ATM[edit]
 Metro Bank, Don Pedro Street Coron town. 24 hour ATM. Accepts Mastercard and Visa cards. (updated Oct 2016)
 PNB Bank, Don Pedro Street. 24 hour ATM. Accepts Visa cards. (updated Oct 2016)
Eat[edit]
There is food available for purchase at Coron Market and numerous bake shops around town.  It's also recommended to buy fruits from the town market and have them prepared at the lodge you stay at free of charge (feel generous to provide a tip).
Recommended to try local fruits such as mango, watermelon, star apple, jackfruit, coconut, starfruit and cashew fruit but they are all seasonal.

 La Sirenetta, ☏ +63 918 903 7063. Beautiful waterfront restaurant on stilts offering international food with entrees ranging from ₱200-400.  Recognizable on the water as sculpted mermaids adorn the posts supporting the roof of the open air dining area.  (Accessible through alleyway beside Coron Divers and Coron Reef Pension House and also by boat.) Entrees from ₱150-1400. 
 Bistro Coron, ☏ +973 3552 9923. Owned by Bruno (who can be seen in the kitchen wearing nothing but a towel and a scowl in the mornings) it is home to French food at prices well above the local average. Entrees go from ₱155-270 for the most part, mains are more but crab and lobster meals are available for even more. Get the onion soup, the apple pie, the coq au vin, the basquaise, the salade niçoise, the cordon bleu. San Miguel will set you back about ₱50. The good pizza would be excellent if the cheese was better. Clearly coasting due to their Lonely Planet mention, service is slow, staff are rude and the place is full of only foreigners. 
 Trining Bacsa. Locally owned and operated restaurant located around the corner from Coron Market.  Offers authentic Filipino cuisine. 
 KokosNuss Resort, ☏ +63 919 448 7879. has a good kitchen. They have a Palawan style all you can eat BBQ deal. 6 or more people required at ₱475 each. They also have a Christmas feast on Dec 24 which is the BBQ and definitely worth going to if you are around (tell them in advance if you are going). San Miguel is ₱32. Breakfasts are good as well. 
 Singapore Restaurant & Bar (Located in the Sea Breeze Lodge). Has Singaporean and Asian food at reasonable prices. ₱140 dinner specials. 
 [dead link] SeaDive Resort, ☏ +63 917 808 6697. Continental variety of food. Situated Over the water, seafront view. Offers inexpensive seafood and a nightly special. Entrees from ₱150-400. 
 Trattoria Altrov’é - Coron Italian Restaurant and Pizza Place. Serves wood-fired pizza, pasta and tasty appetizers. 
 WG Restaurant, ☏ +63 920 580 6676. The owner William gives free tourist advice with your meal, and is extremely helpful and friendly.  You'll get local prices if he is helping you.  He also has accommodation. (updated Nov 2017)
Drink[edit]
Bistro - you can also drink and play billiards at this amazing eatery.
Discovery Bar - chill on the beautiful balcony over the water and overlooking the bay. Relaxing atmosphere complete with hammock. Great place to get your dive theory out of the way at. One billiard table.
Ottos - rock out to some AC/DC and enjoy spying on the hustle and bustle of Coron's main street.
The Old House - happy hour 5PM-7PM all-you-can-drink rum and Coke for ₱50. Beer comes with a koozie. Nice view of Coron's main street from the balcony. It is also a good place to just watch the world go by from the outside seating. One of the best prices you will find outside of the local liquor stores. Laid back atmosphere, interesting clientelle, and warm staff.
Helldiver's Bar" (SeaDive Resort)  - their signature drinks are great for the adventurous drinker, all for reasonable prices. They have a billiard table and relaxing music beat. You can ask for free popcorn at the bar.
Kuweba - on the national highway, near Angel motorcycles is hidden a bar run by some Rastafarian locals, they play their own music and sell hand made jewelry and carvings upstairs.
Sleep[edit]


This guide uses the following price ranges for a standard double room:


Budget
up to ₱500


Mid-range
₱500-2000


Splurge
more than ₱2000

Budget[edit]
You can camp on some of the (somewhat) deserted islands. Ask around. Gunter at Discovery seems to know of a couple good spots. Getting onto the islands might not be so cheap though.
11.9991120.20911 Happy Camper Hostel (one block south from the main road before entering the main part of town). A clean hostel with bright rooms and a happy owner. There are lockers, free WiFi, free breakfast, tea, and coffee. The beds have individual fans. A camping site is under construction. You might already pitch a tent there for a symbolic contribution. ₱350 for the dorms. (updated Aug 2017)
 Marley's Guest House (on main road near center), ☏ +63 9295391133. from ₱400 per person. (updated Oct 2016)
 Sea Dive Resort. On the water overlooking bay. With 32 rooms, dive shop, restaurant and bar. Fan rooms are basic but spacious with a double bed. There is a generator for brown outs. Be careful: Quite often Sea Dive will book a cheaper room only to have the more expensive room when you arrive. fan rooms from ₱400, A/C rooms from ₱1100. (updated Aug 2017)
 Sunnytimes Penson (on the main road opposite the Manneken Pis Cafe). Basically a very nice local woman has opened the upper floor of her house out to backpackers. Basic but very clean and comfortable 2-bed "dorm" fan rooms. Towels are provided. Showers are cold water only, bucket and ladle, and there is no generator. ₱250. 
 Apo Pension House (from the port, follow the main road towards the city. After 500 m (1,600 ft), you can see their entrance sign to your left (bay-side)), ☏ +63 915 8466123. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: noon. Basic but clean & comfy double bedrooms. Thin walls can make noise from bordering rooms apparent. Towels are provided. Showers are cold water, free hot & cold drinking water is provided in their main hall. ₱500 double fan with shared bathroom, ₱850 double aircon w/o window, ₱950 double aircon with window. (updated Oct 2018)
Mid-range[edit]
 Amphibi-Ko Resort, Brgy. 5, Bancuang, Coron, Palawan. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: noon. Amphibi-Ko Resort Lodge offers budget accommodation and island tours in Coron. The lodge has clean rooms with cozy ambience and has an in-house restaurant that serves Japanese cuisines. ₱1350. 
 Coron Ecolodge. Located in a quiet area near the town center, near stores, banks, restaurants and bars. Offers 22 air-conditioned rooms with en suite hot and cold shower and cable-ready TV for around ₱1598, twin sharing. Wi-Fi Internet available at reception area and dining lounge. Also offers tour packages 
 [dead link] Coron Reef Pension, ☏ +63 9198877151, +63 9194501606. A few steps from Coron Divers. Aircon rooms for 2 pax with toilet and bath seaside ₱900, other rooms ₱600, ₱100 for an extra bed. You might get a single for ₱300 if they're not full. 
 Coron Village Lodge. All rooms can accommodate one extra bed. They are all air-conditioned, with hot and cold shower, TV, private toilet and bath. Twin ₱950, triple ₱1200, deluxe room ₱1300, extra bed ₱200. 
 [dead link] First Oriental Lodging, Brgy. Don Pedro St., Poblacion 3 (in front of Coron Tourism Centre near Mt. Tapyas Point and Maquinit Springs.). Aircon and fan rooms for travellers on a budget. All rooms are equipped with basic hotel amenities. ₱1127. 
 Kaba-Kaba, Dipulao, Busuanga (3 km by trike from Coron Town), ☏ +63 926 716 8897, info@kaba-kaba.com. A small place in the rainforest a short trike ride from Coron Town proper. Two cottages available, meals by prior arrangement. Grace and Kevin are very friendly and can advise on the many local attractions. from ₱700. 
 KokosNuss Resort. Outside of town a 10-minute walk up the main road. The rooms all surround a beautiful garden great for lounging around on less adventurous days. Double is ₱600. The staff can help you arrange things to do around the island but it may be cheaper to arrange elsewhere. 
 [dead link] Krystal Lodge, ☏ +63 915-1398939 (Nini), +63 946-8381488 (Abegiel), pretty_kryz23@yahoo.com. A humble lodge over the water in the mangrove area of Coron Town. It has 8 cottages in total and 10 rooms. They offer breakfast & drinks only. Single rooms from ₱400. Other rooms from ₱600. Cottages starts from ₱1000 (2pax) depending on number of people, ₱250 additional person.. 
Kubo Sa Dagat, translated "hut on the sea" is a 30 min boat ride out of town and offers cottages on stilts in the middle of the bay of Malbato. (only accessible by boat)
11.999156120.2013362 Patrik & Tezz Guesthouse, Coastalroad, bgy 5, ☏ +63 9279531407. Swedish managed guesthouse, 3 min walking distance from town proper, located on the water. Shared bathrooms with hot shower, living room with fridge, TV, and WiFi. Motorbike rental - ₱400/24hrs, Island hopping with boat. Double ₱550, twin ₱450. 
 R n R Hotel, ☏ +63 9287609453. Near the town proper. It's a basic clean hotel with shower/AC/without AC room. Free Karaoke/TV. Another option if other hotels are full. They will offer for travel package but you can still bargain. Rent a boat for ₱1500 a day and you can go to different islands for a lower price instead of per head (₱1000). ₱1500. 
 Villa Hermosa Bed and Breakfast, San Agustin St. Brgy 2. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: noon. In the heart of Coron. Continental or Filipino breakfasts are served. ₱650. 
11.99784120.20333 Balaibinda Lodge, 22 Don Pedro Street, Barangay 3, ☏ +63 9293221776, balaibinda@yahoo.com. Check-in: 14:00, check-out: 12:00. An 18-room inland hotel. All rooms are non-smoking. No parking space. It has 3 floors and 3 areas, the courtyard, roofdeck, and roadside. Offers island tours and land transfers to and from the airport and seaport. Has free Wi-Fi and observes health standards in preventing COVID-19 spread. ₱1,300-₱4,200/night with breakfast. (updated Sep 2022)
Splurge[edit]
 Coron Hilltop View Resort, Brgy. Poblacion 6, Sitio Dipulao. Check-in: 2PM. Coron Hilltop View Resort offers fully-air conditioned Deluxe Villas. Avail of the resort's tour packages for island hopping and scuba diving. Restaurant provides Asian cuisine and authentic Filipino food. ₱4000. 
 [dead link] GMG Hotel Coron, National Highway, Cor. Don Pedro St.. Check-in: 1PM, check-out: 11AM. In the town proper. The hotel has a swimming pool and offers scuba diving and island hopping packages. ₱2550. 
 [dead link] Nici Island. Private island with a private beach including a sand bar, swimming pool, tennis court and cook a few minutes from historic WW2 shipwrecks diving sites. 
Stay safe[edit]
Viewing wrecks from outside is safe for more-or-less any diver. Some may require extra caution to avoid getting tangled in rigging, but most wrecks are no more dangerous to visit than a coral reef.
Going inside a wreck is dangerous. Do not even consider it without specialized training, e.g. PADI wreck diver certification. You may also need extra equipment such as lights and guide ropes.

Connect[edit]
Many restaurants, bars, and hotels offer free WiFi (backed by mobile data.) However, the entire town seems to share a single uplink to the internet that is constantly overloaded. So no matter where you connect from, you can probably not do much more than check your messages. The connection is however very reasonable at night between about 1am and 7am when you do not have to share the connection with that many users.

 Calamian Planet Online, BGY. POB. 3 (in the center). 8AM to 9PM. An Internet cafe where you may check your mail and print document, pictures & other. ₱30. 
Go next[edit]
Go to the incredibly beautiful El Nido! 'Tourist' banka boats (Jessabel, Overcomer and Princess Wellia) have scheduled trips that leave every day of the week at about 8AM for ₱1200-1400 peso one way. The trip takes roughly 8 hours and includes a local style meal (fried chicken, chicken adobo, rice, etc.) You can buy the tickets pretty much anywhere in town- you'll see signs up everywhere advertising them. The boats pick up and drop off at Seadive Resort.  You can wait for your departure in the Seadive restaurant, free coffee and tea is provided. The sea can be rough in the Linapacan strait.  The luggage is stowed either in the hull of the boat or on the roof of the cabin if they run out of room.  To be safe, package important items in plastic to keep them dry.






This city travel guide to Coron is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Coron&oldid=4847996"