

Poza Azul in Cuatro Cienegas.
Cuatrociénegas (Four marshes) is a desert oasis in northern Mexico. It is a protected natural reserve where unique plant and animal species thrive in the cool pools, called pozas, fed by underground waters percolating up through the desert floor. The area is a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve and has been designated as a Ramsar wetland.

The area is a protected biosphere.

Understand[edit]
Cuatro Cienegas is a fragile ecosystem. The number of pools, called pozas, in the valley varies seasonally and a precise count is never completely accurate. The biodiversity of Cuatro Cienegas and its unusual ecosystem has earned it labels like "Desert Aquarium" and "Galapagos of Mexico".

Cool, crystal clear waters make it easy to view the underwater ecosystem.
Get in[edit]
Buses run regularly from the twin border towns of Eagle Pass Texas and Piedras Negras Coahuila. Grupo Senda serves the area through its Coahuilenses buses, and ticket prices from the border are approximately US$20. You can also bus in from the city of Monclova, about an hour away or other points in Coahuila and neighboring states.
Driving to Cuatro Cienegas is more practical, especially if you have a 4WD SUV or pickup. Some pozas and recreational areas are far off the main road. The protected area lies about 4 hours from the U.S. border.

Get around[edit]
You can walk around the area near the visitor center at Poza Azul. Some of the more remote pools require 4WD or a good pair of legs (preferably those of a horse). Pools are no longer open for swimming, since new legislation was passed to protect them in 2008.

Fine powdery white gypsum is blown by prevailing winds into sand dunes.
See[edit]
A series of fresh water springs and marshland surrounded by sweeping desert vistas.
Massive white sand dunes of pure gypsum.
The tranquil small town of Cuatro Cienegas
The statue of former president Venustiano Carranza, who was born in Cuatro Cienegas
Do[edit]
Picnic at the banks of the chilly Rio Mezquite
Climb the gypsum sand dunes at Dunas de Yesu.
Learn about the fragile local ecosystem at the Poza Azul.
Buy[edit]
There is a small store set up near the camping area at Poza la Becerra. Has very basic grocery items, but plenty of cold beer. Other small stores can be found in the town of Cuatro Cienegas.

Eat[edit]
There are a couple of small restaurants in the town of Cuatro Cienegas, but no noteworthy restaurants exist there.

Drink[edit]
Bring a cooler of cold drinks with you: this is in the desert.

26.989763-102.0663631 Cantina El 40, Ignacio Zaragoza 204, ☏ +52 869 696 0040. Daily 12:00 - 02:00. Comfortable bar with good drinks also serving innovative Mexican cuisine at reasonable prices. 
Sleep[edit]
A few small hotels can be found in Cuatrocienegas, none have more than about 20 rooms and none cost more than about US$50. The Hotel Santa Fe is on the main road as you come into town. It appears to be a well-kept motor court style motel. There are also a couple of small inns on Ocampo Street, and there is a lodge called El Nogalito that rents family-style cabins outside of town.

 Hotel Santa Fe, ☏ +52 869 696-0425. Carretera a Monclova km 0.4. 
 El Nogalito, ☏ +52 869 696-0009. Carretera a Ocampo km 1. 
 [dead link] Mision Marielena, ☏ +52 869 696-1151. Hidalgo 200 Ote. 
 Hotel Quinta Santa Cecilia, Ocampo 105 (2 blocks from the plaza), ☏ +52 869 696-00-17, +52 830 399-4124 (Skype). Hotel Quinta Santa Cecilia, where charming, Colonial style architecture comes together with the amenities and services of a modern hotel. Built from native material and decorated with hand-crafted Mexican furniture, the hotel offers an escape to one of the 13 natural wonders in Mexico. Contact for prices. 
Go next[edit]
Monclova is the nearest town of any size or significance. It is 80 km east of Cuatro Cienegas.





This city travel guide to Cuatro Ciénegas is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Cuatro_Ciénegas&oldid=4861711"