
Diani Beach is a resort area on the Indian Ocean in Kenya, 30 km south of Mombasa.
It is the most tourist-oriented beach of the so-called South Coast. It is separated from the Tiwi Beach to the north by the Kongo River. 10 km south of Diani Beach is Galu Beach, 20 km south Gazi Beach, 30 km south the Msambweni Beach and 50 km the south of the Mwazaro Beach.


Understand[edit]
Diani Beach
People who want to spend their holidays at the wonderful beaches of Kenya and to go on a safari tour have to decide whether to go to South Coast or North Coast, which simply means south or north of Mombasa. While the South Coast has the nicer beaches and more primordial nature the North Coast around Mombasa offers many more activities. Some of the hotels on the South Coast are quite isolated, offering tranquil holidays at the beach and pool which might become boring. Others are closer to night-life and shopping centres. In contrast, the beaches of the North Coast that are close to Mombasa are more crowded but offer a lot of action and activities, sightseeing, sports, night-life (see Mombasa, Mtwapa). The beaches further north (Kilifi, Watamu, Malindi) are like the South Coast, relatively undeveloped and tranquil, not as long and broad as Diani Beach but even more photogenic.
There will be many cultural differences that often lead to misunderstandings between guests and locals. It's advisable to inform yourself (see: Kenya#Respect).
Kenya is known for sex tourism too. Along the beach, in beach bars or in the huts along the beach offering massage you will get in contact with Kenyan women and men who try to attach themselves to a tourist in search of a better life. Money, not sympathy, is what they are looking for. If you choose to partake, take the usual precautions against HIV and other sexually-transmitted infections.

Climate[edit]
climate in Diani beach
The climate at Diani Beach is tropical, wet and warm. The best travel time is from late November to mid-March. After that it gets uncomfortably hot with increased humidity. The worst travel time is in the main rainy season from April to June. It usually rains only briefly and then the sun shines again, but it is also possible to suffer a continuous rain for days. Also in the 2nd rainy season, October-November, you have to reckon with inconveniences. As it is never cold on rainy days you can still sit at the pool bars or even take beach walks. Aside from the several bars and the shopping malls in Ukunda, there are no other attractions that you can visit in the rain; you can only tour Mombasa, visiting the old town, Fort Jesus, some temples, shops and shopping malls. Rainy days can be a bit boring in Diani.

Get in[edit]
Diani Beach
Diani Beach Sunrise
Package or individual trip[edit]
If you come to Kenya for the first time, it is better to book a package tour. Then you don't have to worry about anything and you can get to know the country and its peculiarities in peace. If you liked it and you want to come back, then it is cheaper to book your individual flight and hotel or holiday apartment.


By plane[edit]
Although there is a small airport in Ukunda, international travelers usually fly to the airport in Mombasa or come via Nairobi and then by plane or train/bus to Mombasa. Jambojet  and Silver Stone Airlines[dead link] offer direct low-cost flights between  Ukunda  and  Nairobi  and Sax Airlines[dead link]  Mombasa - Ukunda .
Direct flight: From the airport, guests who have booked holiday packages are usually picked up by the hotels by minibus. It takes about 2 hours from the landing in Mombasa to the arrival at the hotel. Those arriving privately can take one of the taxis, which costs about Ksh 5000. If the hotel does not offer transportation to the south coast, it is often possible to join other hotel buses that wait in front of the airport if you speak with the driver and give a tip.
Indirect flight via Nairobi: In Nairobi you always have to collect your luggage on the outbound flight (even if you booked the connecting flight to Mombasa on the same ticket). Nairobi is then the entry airport. So you have to go through customs and passport control and get the visa if you don't have an eVisa. This also applies if you have booked the onward flight together with the flight to Mombasa. Then you leave the building with your luggage and go to the Domestic Airport Terminal and check in again. The terminals are arranged in a semicircle and so you can either go across the parking lot or the longer way on the sidewalk. Last has the advantage that you pass by some phone shops to buy a Kenyan SIM card for mobile internet (mostly Safaricom or Airtel), exchange offices and cafes, if you have enough time. Many young men want to earn some money by carrying bags to the other terminal. As a precaution, do not let your luggage out of your hand. Should someone be too intrusive, it helps to get really loud, so security staff become attentive and usually intervene immediately. The whole procedure can go quickly depending on how many planes arrive at the same time but sometimes take 1½ hours.
On the return flight from Mombasa via Nairobi to e.g. Europe, you do not need to pick up your luggage. It is automatically transferred to the connecting flight.
Jambojet fly to (Jomo-kenyatta Nairobi )
Fly540 fly to Wilson Nairobi.
Safarilink fly to Wilson Nairobi.
Airkenya express fly to Wilson Nairobi.
Skyward Express fly to Wilson Nairobi
If you want to combine coast holiday with safari in the Massai Mara its advisable to come to Kenya via Nairobi to save the high costs for the flight from Mombasa into the Mara and back.
By taxi[edit]
Taxis from Mombasa city centre will be around Ksh 3500, from the Mombasa Airport a little more (Ksh 4000-5000). Uber or Bolt (formerly Taxify)  will cost a lot less. A taxi can be a good choice because with public transport you have to change 3 times and it consumes a lot of time. If your hotel does not offer transport to south coast, it is often possible to join other hotel vans that wait in front of the airport if you speak with the driver and give a tip. Travel time is 1-1½ hr.

By bus[edit]
The cheapest way to get to Diani Beach is by local bus-taxis (matatus). From Mombasa town to Likoni Ferry is about Ksh 30. From the Likoni Ferry, take another matatu to Ukunda (30 km) for about Ksh 100. From Ukunda to Diani Beach, take another matatu about 5 km at the cost of about Ksh 50.
An alternative, from December 2019, is the Hakuna Matatu Bus Shuttle Service [dead link] that operates on the Kenya Coast, and a ride from Mombasa costs roughly Ksh 1000 and takes 1 hr 30 min.  The shared taxi is a door-to-door service, meaning you will be collected from your current accommodation in Nyali, Kilifi or Watamu and dropped directly at your next accommodation in Diani
Coming from Tanzania, you can get a bus going to Mombasa and ask the driver to be dropped in Ukunda.

Likoni Ferry[edit]
To get to Diani Beach from the airport, you have to take a ferry across an estuary. This runs 24/7. It is very busy at peak times. You also have to take this ferry if you want to visit Mombasa from the south coast.

Get around[edit]
Minivan Taxi "Matatu"
Tricycle Taxi " tuk tuk"
Motorbike Taxi "boda-boda"
Many travelers use the insecure means of transport to save a tiny amount of money from stinginess or to feel like "locals". You should really consider whether the risk is worth the small savings. Always before the start of the ride, the fare should be negotiated!

Minivans (Matatus): run up and down Diani Beach Road from early in the morning until late in the evening. They are best suited for longer distances, e.g. to Mombasa. They are cheap, mostly overcrowded, unsafe and uncomfortable
Tricycle taxi (Tuktuk): they are approved for 3 persons and are suitable for medium to short distances. They are more expensive than the Matatus, but cheaper than taxis and quite often involved in accidents.
Motorcycle taxi (Boda-boda): They are the cheapest means of transport for short distances, but also the most dangerous. If you are not poorly off, you should avoid them.
Regular taxis: Regular taxis are the most convenient and safest means of transport. In the night it is safest to take always a taxi.
Shuttle services: A cheaper alternative to regular taxis are the shuttle services Uber, Taxify, Little [formerly dead link] , Mondo Ride[dead link], MaraMoja, Hakuna Matatu Bus [dead link] . You can get fares online and thereby avoid getting overcharged, as many taxi drivers like to do to tourists.
Rent a car is not recommended if you have no experience in the chaotic left-hand traffic of Kenya, unless, you hire a driver. You can also rent motorcycles, scooters or Quads, which is even more dangerous.
Air taxi[dead link] Diani Airport to Mombasa Airport: If you don't feel like waiting for hours to cross the ferry this is an alternative, especially if there are emergency medical problems.
See[edit]
4°18′14″S 39°34′46″EMap of Diani Beach
Kongo River
Waiting for tourists
Diani beach
Diani Beach
Outrigger canoe
-4.34437339.5648731 Colobus Conservation, Diani Beach Road, Diani Beach, ☏ +254 711 479453, enquiries@colobusconservation.org. A re-adaptation center and orphanage for Angolan colobus in the Kwale County. If you want to see one of the six primates species in South Coast Kenya visit the colobus trust for an informative walk to spot one of the many wild primates. There are opportunities for volunteering. 
-4.394939.54562 Kaya Kinondo Sacred Forest. This is a special forest which can only be visited with a guide. It is better to phone ahead to confirm there is one, especially if you want to go early while it is still cool. Allow 2 hours for a full tour. Better if you don't have mobility problems. It's very safe and quite different form the beach attractions. It's a place rich in cultural heritage as well as sacred ambience. One has to tie a black kanga as a sign of respect to the spirits residing in the holy forest. Through the nature trail one gets to learn of different plants and a cleared area shows the residence of the ancestors. You can make wishes while hugging a tree that's sacred. After that long walk you can enjoy a cultural dance. (updated Nov 2016)
-4.273439.59373 Komboza Cave. Entrance is directly between "Spice Bar" and "Asin's Hotel" on the beach road near Southern Palms beach resort. The cave system runs from the entrance to the sea at Leisure Lodge in one direction and to the mosque by Kongo river and possibly even to Tiwi in the other. The cave system is being developed as of 2017. (updated Oct 2017)
-4.647239.38094 Slave Caves. 8:30AM-6PM. The Slave Caves are in Shimoni, the start and finish point for trips to Wasini Island. In these coral rock caves slaves were captured before they were sold in Zanzibar. A sad and yet interesting place, now inhabited by bats. The caves are now run as a community project. Short guided tours are offered (Ksh 400). (updated Oct 2017)
-4.601739.35415 Three Sister’s Caves. Just before reaching Shimoni, near Fikirini village, there are the three Fikirini caves or “Three Sister’s Caves”, one of them quite big with thousands of flying foxes and bats. These enormous underground caverns once served as a hiding spot during the time of the slave trade. Reachable by guided tours and definitely worth a visit if you like caves. (updated Jul 2018)
-4.362839.41736 Shimba Hills National Reserve. Shimba Hills National Reserve is one of the largest coastal forests in East Africa. This reserve is rich in flora and fauna. Sometimes it's difficult to see the animals as they hide in the forest. Other animal species found in the area are Sable antelope, elephant shrew, bushy tailed mongoose and other small mammals like fruit bats. The forest is an important bird area and is endowed with forest birdlife. The scenic Sheldrick Falls and the dense Mwaluganje Forest are also found here along with four campsites. All hotels will help to organize the trip. The park is 40 km from Diani Beach. Entrance fee: Ksh 2200, transport by taxi about Ksh 6000 both ways from Diani Beach. Booked travel about Ksh 10,000 including lunch at park. It is worth spending few days in one of the hotels at the edge of the park. They offer a marvelous panoramic view across the Shimba Hills, the Mwaluganje Elefant Sanctuary and the river valley (Kutazama, Shimba Green Lodge, Mahindri Lodge). (updated Jul 2018)
-4.6939.3787 Kisite Mpunguti Marine Park & Reserve. It lies in the coral gardens south of Wasini Island and encompasses three small coral rag forest islands, each with considerable areas of fringing reef. Kisite is one of the most rewarding snorkelling locations at the coast with special habitats of a wide range of endemic marine animals and breeding migratory birds. Tours are offered at all travel agencies at Diani Beach and Ukunda (updated Jul 2018)
-4.458439.4828 Msambweni. Although it is only half an hour by car from the touristic hub of Diani Beach, package tourism has not arrived in these parts yet - on the long beaches you rarely meet a white person. Msambweni consists of a cluster of ten villages; all together they have about 12,000 inhabitants, predominantly Muslims and members of the locally dominant Digo tribe. People in Msambweni make their livelihood mainly from agriculture, fishing, crafts and trade and some public service. Coconut palms, mango and neem trees, and sugar cane plantations characterize the area. (updated Jul 2018)
-4.2325-4.23259 Africa Pool. At the end of Tiwi Beach there is a long section with coral reefs without a sandy beach. The Africa Pool is a natural photogenic rock pool, which is located here in the coral reef and is only visible at low tide and has the shape of the African continent. You can snorkel in it. (updated Dec 2019)
-4.388439.546510 [dead link] BoraBora Wildlife Park. Small zoo with giraffes, zebras, buffaloes, imalas, monkeys, crocodiles, etc. located on Diani Beach Rd. Particularly popular with Kenyan school classes who cannot afford a safari and have the opportunity to see the wildlife of their home. 20$. (updated Jan 2020)
Do[edit]
Camel riding
 Golf. Leisure Golf Club is part of the Leisure Lodge. (updated Jul 2018)
 Quad Trips. Drive with quads on a guided trips on dirt roads through small villages and beautiful scenery. (updated Jul 2018)
 Kite surfing (at Nomads and Galu Beach). Mwazaro Beach is also a well known spot for kite surfers. (updated Jul 2018)
 Diving. There are two big diving schools at Diani Beach,  Diving The Craband  Diani Marine (updated Jul 2018)
 Snorkelling. The best places are Kisite Marine Park and Wasini Island. In comparison to the well known snorkelling places like in Egypt, Maldives there is less to see in Kenya. (updated Jul 2018)
 Wasini Island & Kisite Marine Park. Make a day tour by boat with snorkeling, delicious food and have a look at the coral gardens and the slave caves. Prices: €60-100 for tours with lunch, €15-20 for simple tours with beach boys. There is a strong current between May and June and the sea is very turbulent. During this time the tour is only partly recommendable. (updated Jul 2018)
 [dead link] Shimba Hills Green Lodge. A day tour to or to Shimba Hills Green Lodge enables travelers to relax in impressive natural surroundings and enjoy a marvelous panoramic view across the Shimba Hills, the Mwaluganje Elephant Sanctuary and the river valley. (updated Jul 2018)
 Mwachema River (Congo River). On a boat trip up the Congo-Tiwi-Mwachema River you get a nice impression of the river flora and see a lot of birds. The tour can be best organized by a local travel agency but also by beach boys if you go for cheap. They charge for a 1-hour trip about Ksh 1000 for 2 people. (updated Jul 2018)
 Chale Island. It is easiest if you book a day tour by boat. At the end of Diani Road at Chale Harbor you can take a ferry to Chale Island. There are tickets at the booth at the pier. Costs: Ksh 5000 per person including dinner at Sands Hotel. Chale is the only individual resort island in Kenya, which explains the high entrance fee. (updated Jul 2018)
 Dolphin spotting. trips offered by the beach or on tours to Wasini Island (updated Jul 2018)
 Funzi Island. Visit the Gazi Mangrove Boardwalk, learn something about the mangroves and watch the bird life, visit Gazi village, the Congo Mosque and the pristine beach at Gazi from where you can get boats for a tour along the river mouth. Tours are offered at local travel agencies in Ukunda and Diani (updated Jul 2018)
 Sea angling. Calculate about €25/5 hr. Tours are offered along the beach (updated Jul 2018)
 Glass bottom boat. A trip with a glass bottom boat or a canoe on the sandbank (updated Jul 2018)
 Bays Hiking. South of Galu Beach and Kinondo, along the peninsula that leads to Chale Island, lie a series of pristine, very photogenic lonely bays with deserted beaches. On the first 2 km are the most beautiful bays, so you do not need to go further. (updated Dec 2018)
 School, orphanage, village visits. Some organizations offer to visit such institutions to collect donations. It is good to get informed in advance about the reputation of the institutions, so that the donations benefit the needy and not just the organizers. Especially popular with older ladies these tours have been recognized as a lucrative business among the locals. (updated Jan 2019)
 Scenic flights. Wildcoast Airline offers scenic flights along Diani Beach, past Chale Island, Msambweni, and Funzi Island. 10000 Ksh. (updated Jan 2019)
-4.2929239.587821 Coral reef restoration (ReefoDivers), Swahili Beach Resort, Ukunda, Diani Beach Road, Kwale (Enter Swahili Beach Resort, next to the lowest pool is a conservation education dive base), ☏ +254 768950800, diani@reefolution.org. 8AM-4PM. Gain a maximum experience of ecotourism! Dive and actively help to restore the valuable and fragile coral reefs. After a 3 day course you can help underwater with growing corals and outplanting these on a degraded reefs, while being surrounded by turtles, octopus, stingray, lots of fish and sometimes even dolphins. The course is an official PADI specialty, so after the course you can help with coral reef restoration around the world. 225€. (updated Apr 2022)
Safaris[edit]
 Arrival. Most people who come to Kenya want to combine beach fun with a safari tour. If you want to visit the Masai Mara Park, it might be financially worth travelling to Kenya via Nairobi to save the high costs of the flight from Ukunda to the Mara and back. Or if you have plenty of time and want to keep costs low book the safari tour from Diani driving to Tsavo, Amboseli, Nairobi, Naivasha, Mara and then back to the coast by flight or train from Nairobi. (updated Jul 2018)
 Booking. There are quite a number of travel agencies at Diani Beach organizing safaris, serious companies and private people that do it illegally to avoid taxes. The illegals can be cheaper of course. For your safety the company should properly service and insure their vehicles and have a working permit. A notice of proper handling can be an own office and vehicles, which clearly show the company logo painted on the bus. For these companies, a muddle would be far more difficult because they are easy trackable. Signs on the car should be firm and not interchangeable with a handle for the next car. In general, however, everyone should inquire about the necessary regulations before booking a safari. A good organizer will be able to answer these questions with pleasure. If you book via Internet you have to ask several agents because every company works either with different hotels or gets different conditions at a special place. Its really worth comparing several offers. Prices depend strongly on the season. During animal migration prices are at top level. Not to be put with 6 others into a minivan its advisable to book the safari at a company situated at Diani Beach and to ask for the transport conditions. If you want to book a safari for several days do it also at a local company via internet from your home country. Than you don’t need to book and pay your hotel at the beach for the days you are out. For good offers it is necessary to know the travel time, the number of persons, which accommodation in the respective park, how many days you want to stay in which park, Jeep or Minivan transport. To check price levels of safaris: Kenya Safari Tours & Holidays. Some well known companies that have offices and headquarters at Diani Beach area are: African Bush & Beach Adventures, African Dream Safaris, Tembo Safaris ltd [dead link], Aqua Paradise Safaris, D.M. Tours & Safaris, Diani Tours & Safaris, Kiwara Safaris, Lady M Safaris, Tammy Tours, Pitia Africa Tours, Wildnis Tours and Safaris, Wild Kenya Safaris. (updated Nov 2019)
 Clothing. Maasai Mara is colder than the Tsavo parks and Amboseli. In the morning it gets sometimes under 10 °C and safari vehicles are usually open. From 9AM it will be warm and a T-shirt and shorts are sufficient. Therefore, the "onion look" is recommended, e.g. Zip-off pants, T-shirt and fleece jacket, a "multi functional scarf" (as a hair band with hair blowing in open jeep, as cap in the morning for cold, as scarf for draught in the car or because of the air conditioning, as sun protection for the head) and possibly a hat and gloves for sensitive people. It is also important to carry sunscreen, sunglasses, mosquito repellents and enough batteries, because electricity is turned off often overnight in the lodges leaving no chance to charge rechargeable batteries. Light shoes or flip-flops (to step the seats) are sufficient as you will leave the car if at all only shortly during the tour. At night in the camp, a fleece jacket is comfortable and jogging suit. In Tsavo and Amboseli short clothing plus windbreaker, multi functional scarf, mosquito repellent and sunscreen sunglasses and spare batteries are enough. In the evening if you want to stay outside a little longer then a jogging suit and maybe a windbreaker (updated Dec 2018)
Buy[edit]
The main shopping area with boutiques and souvenirs is located along the 25 km long main road with more than a hundred local shops, 3 large shopping centres, many supermarkets, pharmacies and groceries. During the rainy season there are less shops, but in general you will find all the goods. If you visit Maasai village you may also buy unique souvenirs made of beads. The most popular souvenirs in Diani Beach are paintings, wood crafts, fabrics, kikoy, kanga, statues made of soap stone, hand-made jewellery, traditional African, Arab and Indian clothes and many others.
Money: UK pounds, US Dollar or Euro can be changed in every bank and in hotels. At the airport the rates are low and its better to change only small amount on arrival. At the ATMs which can be found at banks and big supermarkets Kenya shilling can be withdrawn with most credit cards. Ecobank, Cooperative Bank, GT Bank ATMs have No withdrawal fee at their own ATMs. Many other ATMs have a Ksh700 withdrawal fee.
When buying goods at small shops, in the streets or at the beach take care to give the exact amount as sellers often tent to betray with change.

-4.3076939.577271 Bahari plaza shopping center, fax: . Bahari plaza is a large shopping area spread on both sides of the main road. Ushago restaurant and Chandarana foodplus  supermarket. You will find here also a pharmacy, Fidelity bank, a large vegetable-fruit shop, Ushago restaurant, safari companies, jewellery shop and a few boutiques. Chandarana supermarket is a Western-style supermarket with all products for daily use. There is also an ATM (Fidelity Bank). 
-4.290839.58522 Carrefour Shopping Centre. Carrefour Diani Beach is modern hypermarket with a few boutiques on the upper floor and a pharmacy and a restaurant with cafeteria on the ground floor. The shopping centre is located in the central area and is easy accessible with local matatu transfer. In the Carrefour Supermarket you will find all the goods you would get in a large supermarkets in Europe. Right next to the shopping centre is DTB bank and ATM. (updated Apr 2021)
-4.306139.5783 Diani Shopping Centre. There is the supermarket Muthaiga, a pharmacy (Good life Pharmacy Health and Beauty), two restaurants and a sport bar, a large local shops for vegetable, fruits, spices, few boutiques, African art gallery, internet café, Italian bakery, bank and an Apple Store for computers. (updated Nov 2016)
-4.280639.56624 The Gate Mall. In Ukunda with Naivas Supermarket. (updated May 2017)
Eat[edit]
Ukunda village
There is no reason to be afraid to go out of the resort at night for visiting clubs or restaurants. For security, take a taxi from the hotel and back, not Tuktuk or motorcycle. Every restaurant will call a reliable taxi to bring you back after dinner. All pubs and bars serve decent food (see drinking) and there are a lot of small good restaurants. About 10 percent of the invoice amount is common as a tip, but only if the food tasted good and service was good. In many restaurants it can take an hour from ordering until food is served, as everything is prepared freshly. The following restaurants are excellent, a bit more expensive and for special events.
-4.31239.57461 Ali Barbour's Cave Restaurant. set inside an ancient coral cave and lit by warm candlelight. The a la carte menu specializes in seafood, international & traditional cuisine and is accompanied by a great wine-list. The restaurant opens every day from 7PM. Reservation required. Courtesy transfer from hotels in Diani. Dress code: smart casual. No shorts, no children 6 and under. 6PM-midnight. 
-4.355339.56212 Sails Beach Bar & Restaurant. Seafood, European, vegetarian. Noon-11:30PM. 
-4.35239.563 Nomad Restaurant. Italian, bar, pizza, seafood, sushi, European, international, gluten-free options, 7AM-10PM. 
-4.307139.57884 The Edge Beach Restaurant. 8AM-9PM. Seafood, barbecue, European, African, vegetarian. 
-4.350239.56315 The Blue Marlin Beach restaurant, ☏ +254 712559117, reservations@bluemarlinbeachhotel.com. 8AM-10PM. Seafood, barbecue, European, African, vegetarian. 
-4.350939.56346 Lymington. Delicious seafood and meat dishes with ocean view. (updated Oct 2017)
-4.298939.58177 Kokkos Cafe. Delicious cake and other tasty sweets. Also good steak and fish dishes. (updated Feb 2018)
-4.309139.57698 Shashin-ka Japanese Restaurant, ☏ +254 720 747803. Fresh fish and seafood, sushi, exquisite presentation, attentive servers, reasonable prices. (updated Oct 2018)
-4.303639.5799 Tiki Bar. A good restaurant, blends African European food, quality and value for money, very good. (updated Jan 2019)
-4.342439.564210 Colobus shade. Nice place to enjoy in peace freshly prepared seafood and fish. (updated Jan 2019)
Simple but typical local restaurants where there is really great food at very reasonable prices:

-4.283739.570411 Swahili Pot. Country style food. (updated Feb 2017)
-4.289139.585912 African Pot. Country style food. (updated Feb 2017)
-4.20539.586513 Coast Dishes. Country style food. (updated Feb 2017)
-4.289239.586714 Qua Bruce Restaurant. Simple but good restaurant for Swahili dishes, diagonally opposite to Barclay's bank. (updated Oct 2017)
-4.35639.56315 Mvureni Beach Bar and Restaurant. Simple restaurant and bar at a beautiful and quiet beach. (updated Jan 2018)
-4.34293839.56343816 Sea Pub. A drinking hole with nicely flavoured local food (stews, greens, beans, rice, etc.) including complimentary chunks of pineapple for dessert. Look for the blue painted sign. Ksh 100-200 per plate. (updated Feb 2019)
Drink[edit]
Night live at Diani Beach is not comparable to the North Coast at Mombasa or Mtwapa. Its more a place to relax than to party. Many hotels offer life music in the evening.
If you want to go back to the hotel at night, you should always order a taxi or let the club do it for you. Every club (not the ladies in the club!) knows trustworthy drivers. Furthermore, it is not advisable to wait in the street until a tuktuk or taxi comes by accidentally. Always wait directly at the hotel/bar/restaurant until the ordered vehicle pulls up. The "motorcycle guys" along Diani Beach Road who do snatch thefts are incredibly fast.
At the weekend, many people go to the Manyatta around 8:00 p.m. (first outside - later inside) and around midnight they go to the Tandoori until the sun rises. On Fridays there are often parties in Soul Breeze, right on the beach (more electro) and on Saturdays in Backpackers. 

Some of the most frequently visited places are those listed below:

-4.320939.572681 Manyatta Green Club. Pub at the Beach Road with cheap beer mostly visited by Kenyans. 
-4.3181139.57342 Shakatak. Only real club, which is not attached to a hotel. 
-4.320439.57223 Tandoori. Cool club outside the hotel with a mixed audience of locals and tourists. Amenities include pool table and guest house. (updated Nov 2016)
-4.322539.57284 [dead link] Bidi Badu. Beach bar and restaurant with good music and other shows and entertainment in the evening. Their food is good and the pricing is fair. (updated Nov 2016)
-4.273439.5975 African Oasis. popular beach bar and restaurant (updated Dec 2019)
Sleep[edit]
Southern Palms - Pool
WaterLovers Beach Resort
Ocean Front Room Balcony
Beach Resort)
Msambweni, Mbuyu Beach Bungalows
Hotel location:: Some of the hotels at South Coast are quite isolated offering tranquil holidays at beach and pool which might become boring. Others are closer to night-life and shopping centres. As there are too many hotels, cottages, guest houses at Diani Beach to describe in detail. A look at Google Earth gives a good hint which hotels are quiet and which belong to the more active areas.
All-Inclusive: Due to the tropic climate you have to drink a lot and this might sum up if you are not on all inclusive, especially with kids. Prices drinks (2019) in Ksh approx .: water (0,5l): 150-200, soft drinks: 250, beer (0,5l): 300-400, cocktails from 650. If you book half board it is good to have super markets and simple pubs close to the hotels to keeps costs lower, as drinks in the resorts are more expensive than outside. Keep in mind that the hotels that offer all inclusive might have the problem of attracting drunkards and appropriate guests.
Private accommodation: You should check the location of the accommodation well in Google Earth, as most of them are not on the beach.
Day guest in beach hotel: If you have rented a private house, but want to go in the well-kept hotel areas with sun loungers and pool, etc., must pay admission, depending on the resort can be quite high (about Ksh 2500/person including food and drinks in hotels).
Dress code in resorts: men wear long pants at dinner. At breakfast and lunch you can go with short pants and t-shirt or beach dress but never come in swimming trunks or bikini
The hotel standards are in almost all respects not comparable with European or US top destinations. Power outages are normal and a certain serenity, as far as time is concerned, you have to adjust.
Local guests in hotel rooms: The large all-inclusive hotels do not allow local guests in the hotel. If you want that, you have to switch to smaller Hotels without “Joiner Fee”, where companions can stay overnight at no additional cost. Such hotels are called "Girl friendly" or "Guest friendly" in Kenya. Anyone who would like to spend pleasant hours with their 'hottie' should always rent an extra room anyway, as it often happens that valuables leave the hotel with the 'guest'. There are many tricks that the often inexperienced tourists do not know. Going to the locals' accommodation to save money on an extra hotel room is high risk. Punters have already landed at the police stations without money and with a complaint of rape, which is then only withdrawn against payment of a higher sum.
Budget[edit]
-4.3127739.574111 [dead link] Stilts Backpackers. There are nice tree houses single/double/triple Ksh 1,800/1,400/1,000 with shared bathrooms, or cottages single/double/triple/quad Ksh 3,000/1,800/1,400/1,000 with attached bathrooms per person per night. Wi-Fi available at the bar for Ksh 300 per room for your whole stay. 
-4.33739.55372 Diani Hostel, ☏ +254-720-707777. Budget place located about 1.5 km from Diani Beach Road (close to the Diani children's village). Double rooms with shared or private bath rooms available. Dorms are just under the same roof with some spacers inbetween the "rooms".  Has a nice swimming pool but the stretchers almost all broken. Shared kitchen available but a fee is charged to use it! Poor Wifi. Do not confuse with "Diani Backbackers" (a few minutes walk on the same road). Dorm from Ksh 600, single from Ksh 1200, double rooms from Ksh 1500. (updated Jan 2023)
-4.3409439.560673 Diani Backpackers, ☏ +254 0715 61 40 38. A backpacker spot with dorms from Ksh 1050 and privates from Ksh 2600. Free Wi-Fi. 
-4.3010439.572674 Pepo Huru Hostel (From Diani Beach road, take the paved road towards Diani airstrip. Just before the airstrip is in sight there is a sign for the hostel to the left of the road.). No-frills hostel/guest house with double rooms and dormitories. Private rooms are self-contained and include wall-mounted fan, small table, chair. Every room has a small patio and seating out-front. Shared kitchen for cooking available. Meal options available. Decent Wi-Fi (free). Some noise from monkeys jumping on the roof and the airstrip. Good value for longer stays (7+ nights). Double rooms for 1500/2500/7000/15000 for 1/2/7/30 nights. (updated Jan 2023)
Mid-range[edit]
There are many nice resorts but some don't have a good beach for swimming due to reefs or sea grass. Good resorts with nice beaches include:

-4.323339.57415 Diani Sea Lodge. (updated Nov 2016). has the best beach in the area
-4.332939.56776 Papillon Lagun Reef. On the most beautiful beach of Diani Beach, friendly staff, good food (updated Nov 2016)
-4.3502539.5631947 Blue Marlin Beach Hotel, ☏ +254 724100629, reservations@bluemarlinbeachhotel.com. On the most beautiful beach of Diani Beach, friendly staff, good food. (updated Nov 2016)
-4.272839.59558 Southern Palms Beach Resort. Very large pool, lots of space at beach, good with kids. Popular with Indian families and thus the food has Indian touch. (updated Nov 2016)
-4.301139.58019 Diani Sea Resort. Central, short distances to the supermarket Chandarana and in the evening to the pubs Tandoori and Shakatak. (updated Jan 2017)
-4.332539.568210 Ocean Village. Small and luxurious. (updated Jan 2017)
-4.30539.578511 Baobab Beach Resort. Simple resort but top cuisine, great animation and nice ambience. (updated Nov 2017)
Good hotels with less spectacular beach:

-4.291439.585612 Swahili Beach Resort. Nice hotel, Indian building style, very large pool area, unfortunately, the beach section is not so good. But walking a few distance over the reef tops there is a great beach. The hotel is very central for shopping and restaurants. (updated Nov 2017)
Splurge[edit]
-4.274939.594613 Maji Beach Boutique Hotel. Small, luxurious. (updated Dec 2016)
-4.327439.571814 Sands at Nomad. Beautiful hotel, great beach, delicious cuisine. (updated Nov 2016)
For those who prefer to enjoy a quiet and relaxed holiday away from the tourist centers, accommodations at Msambweni Beach or Mwazaro Beach are recommended.

-4.474639.489815 Mbuyu Beach Bungalows. This tiny beach resort in Msambweni is far away from any kind of package tourism. (updated Jul 2017)
-4.558339.380516 [dead link] Mwazaro Beach Lodge. Far from any tourist infrastructure at Mwazaro beach. (updated Jul 2017)
Connect[edit]
Most long distance connections (bus, train, flights) to other Kenyan destinations go via Mombasa and are described in detail there. Busses to Tansania stop in Ukunda and go via Tanga to Dar es Salaam in about 10-12 hours.
Internet: most hotels have Wi-Fi at least in the reception area. To have internet connection also at the rooms and beach area it is advisable to buy a Kenyan prepaid card at the shopping centres. Mobile internet is cheap in Kenya.

Stay healthy[edit]
Vaccinations: Every traveler should have at least the usual vaccinations against polio, tetanus, diphtheria, and possibly hepatitis A and B. Vaccinations against typhoid and cholera, diseases transmitted mainly by contaminated water and poor food hygiene, are usually not necessary during tourist stays. Yellow fever: An inoculation against yellow fever must only be done when entering a risk area. Diani Beach is not a risk area but most safari destinations are[1]. Malaria prophylaxis (e.g., lariam, malarone) should be taken as there is a certain malaria risk in most parts of the country. Due to the risk of bilharziosis, bathing in standing fresh water should be avoided.
Mosquito repellent. It is important to protect against mosquito bites in order to avoid transmitted diseases such as malaria, yellow fever, dengue fever, West Nile fever, Chikungunya fever and more. In the tropics, DEET-containing compounds are recommended and are also available everywhere on the spot. The higher the concentration of DEET, the more effective (and harmful) the agent. Ecological agents based on essential oils help some, others not. Here everyone, according to his type, must find the right remedy. Since Diani Beach is not an area with ever-moist tropical forests, there are rather few mosquitoes. Also hotel strive to combat. So be careful, but do not panic. Bright long clothes, especially in the evening also helps something. During the rainy season, there are significantly more mosquitoes than in the dry season, so prophylaxis is even more important.
Diarrhea: Hardly anyone is spared from diarrhea during a tropical journey. Rarely it is at the foreign food, but mostly at the enjoyment of too cold beverages. Avoid any kind of salads if you have a sensitive stomach.  In almost every pharmacy in Kenya "Dia Stop" or Immodium tablets is available. These tablets help immediately and reliably.
Tap water is not safe to drink -- buy bottled water instead. In all accommodations, things of value and cash should never be left in the room, but only in the hotel safe! Things that are left unattended on the beach are gone. Take the usual precautions against HIV infections.
STDs.: Many guests on the Kenyan coast enjoy close contact with local women or men. Sex tourism is an important source of income for poor Kenyans and whether at night in pubs or during the day at the beach walk or at the beach bar and of course at the massage booths along the beaches it comes to contacts. Individual men and women are very quickly addressed by the "beach boys" or "beach girls". The usual precautionary measures against HIV infection should never be neglected.
At the beach: Depending on the tides, the sea can sometimes have high waves. Currents and undercurrents should not be underestimated. Especially with running water you should not swim too far out. Nudism and topless bathing is prohibited in Kenya. The police is rigorous in this case. When walking on the reef simple beach shoes made of soft plastic are completely unsuitable, because on the coral reef also sea urchins live, whose long and pointed spines pierce easily the plastic soles. Old sandals with a thick, solid sole are more suitable. It is important to use sunscreen and wear a hat. The sun is strong near Equator! Sunglasses are very important because of the reflective white sand on the beach. Good mosquito repellent is important. Also in Kenya there are very good and effective repellents on sale.
Jellyfish: In January/February sometimes small (about 2-4 cm), blue jellyfish come to the south coast. They float on the water surface. The tentacles can be extended up to about 30 cm. They are not poisonous, just burning very hard. Immediate rubbing with vinegar helps! Do not wash with fresh water immediately, that's what makes it worse for the moment. If there are any remains of the tentacles on the skin, first remove them with a cloth or napkin. Do not touch with bare hands as they are still active for a while.
Health insurances: If you stay longer than 6 weeks, you may need to get insurance in Kenya, as travel insurance often allows a maximum of 6 weeks. Insurance that tourists like to use are: UAP Old Mutual[dead link], AAR[dead link],  National Hospital Insurance Fund - NHIF 
 Diani Beach Hospital. A real modern hospital is available in case of emergencies, also the  Palm Beach Hospital
Dentists: The Diani Beach Hospital has a new, modern dental area
General behaviour in public: consult the respect rules how to interact with Kenyans and the safety guidelines for general safety suggestions
Emergency number: 112
Stay safe[edit]
Valuables: Diani Beach is a relatively safe area, especially during the day. Nevertheless one should not carry valuable jewellery or watches, have the purse not in the back pocket, etc. because of pickpockets. In the evening you should always take a taxi to the pubs and restaurants. For all accommodations is that valuables and cash, never to be left in the room, but should be kept in the hotel safe (against receipt) or room safe! There are also hotel safe locks (e.g. Milockie)  where you can additionally secure the room safe against thieving room staff with your own (curtains)-lock. Room safes are not really safe. Only with this type of safekeeping the baggage insurance will pay in case of theft. A theft must be reported to the police. Things that you leave unobserved on the beach are gone!
Passport: For police checks, ID is required. But also a copy is sufficient. Therefore, you should have a copy made at the hotel on the day of arrival, which you can always take with you, without fear of losing your ID. Important are the first page and the page with the visa.
Monkeys in the hotels: There are monkeys in all the hotel facilities. They can be quite troublesome if you leave a window or balcony door open. They enter the room looking for food and leave it in a chaos. Mostly these are baboons and blue (diademed) monkeys. The latter are sometimes also quite aggressive! The problem is that they are fed by many tourists. These animals are, of course, smart, and expect this from all whites. Although there are signs everywhere stating that the feeding of the monkeys is forbidden, this is seldom noticed. Also in the hotel gardens they tend to steal from the tables. They might look sweet and entertaining, but be aware and don't feed them.
Day/Night: During the daytime you never need to be afraid of raids. In the evening take a taxi if you go out to pubs and restaurants. For your best safety at night always go by taxi to restaurants or bars and back, not motorbike taxi or tuktuk. Often employees of tour operators warn to leave the hotel on their own. So one misses many country-typical impressions. That is completely reasonless. It is best to note down the phone number of a trustworthy and nice taxi driver who can then bring you to the tourist attractions, night bars or restaurants and pick you up.
Beach boys: For many tourists, however, the beachboys are very unpleasant. These are traders of all ages and sex who want to sell everything from the souvenirs, massages to a safari. Although it is understandable that the people in Kenya are very poor and every source of income is used, they become annoying when you are addressed ever few meters. Be aware of Common scams.
Photos: Before you take pictures of people, you should always ask for permission. Forbidden are photos of military and public institutions such as banks, and ferries. Here police is very rigorous, so be careful!
Sex tourism: Kenya is known for its sex tourism. Young Kenyan women and men hope for a better life overseas by marrying a tourist. Therefore, you can often see retirees in nice company of too young ladies, or mature ladies with young men. You may feel young again, but you should never forget that money counts here, not supposed love. For Kenya as well, age, social background and educational attainment should match for long-term relationships.
Power adapter: In Kenya, the English 220V three-pole plug is used. It is recommended to take an adapter with overvoltage protection from your home country. Voltage fluctuations are common in Kenya and so you secure your cell phone or computer. In the large supermarkets in Ukunda you can get the appropriate adapter, but without the voltage protection.
Go next[edit]
Elephants at Shimba Hills
 Tsavo East National Park. Tsavo East is generally flat, with dry plains across which the Galana River flows with swampy marshland. The park forms the largest protected area in Kenya and is home to most of the larger mammals, vast herds of dust –red elephant, Rhino, buffalo, lion, leopard, pods of hippo, crocodile, waterbucks, lesser Kudu, gerenuk and the prolific bird life features 500 recorded species. The 300-km long Yatta Plateau is the longest lava flow in the world. The park is about 350 km from Diani Beach. A booked tour of two days is about €250.
 Tsavo West National Park: Tsavo West is characterized by a hilly arid landscape. This park is dotted with volcanic cones; dramatic, black lava flows; and a number of rocky outcrops.
Maasai Mara National Reserve. A safari trip to the best known Kenyan National Park is about €1000 including flight and hotel for a three-day trip from Diani Beach.
Mombasa: A must-see destination for those who want to see more of Kenya than just the beach. Good shopping for souvenirs. Those who do not dare to visit the city on their own can book day tours at the local travel agencies in Ukunda or on Diani Beach.
Moorings, Mtwapa Creek
Mtwapa: the village of the Europeans 20 km north of Mombasa, known as the "village that never sleeps", 20 km north of Mombasa, the center of nightlife and prostitution on the Kenyan coast. In addition to the night-life scene, the Jumba Ruins and the Creek are well worth seeing. Some providers of day tours in Diani and Ukund offer a visit together with Mombasa.
Msambweni: Although it is only half an hour by car from the touristic hub of Diani Beach, package tourism has not arrived in these parts yet - on the long beaches you rarely meet a white person. Msambweni consists of a cluster of ten villages; all together they have about 12,000 inhabitants, predominantly Muslims and members of the locally dominant Digo tribe. People in Msambweni make their livelihood mainly from agriculture, fishing, crafts and trade and some public service. Coconut palms, mango and neem trees, and sugar cane plantations characterize the area. You can go there by either rental car (best plus driver) or book a tour at one of the local travel agencies.





This city travel guide to Diani Beach is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Diani_Beach&oldid=4839529"