


Dnipro (Ukrainian: Дніпро, also transliterated Dnepr from Russian: Днепр), until May 2016 known as Dnipropetrovsk (Ukrainian: Дніпропетро́вськ) or Dnepropetrovsk (Russian: Днепропетровск), is a major industrial city in Eastern Ukraine. It is named after the Dnieper River (known in Ukraine as the Dnipro River) than runs through it. You may find some interesting and useful information about Dnipro on unofficial website.


Understand[edit]
Dnipro is an industrial centre of Ukraine that was a hub for the Soviet military industry. As such, no foreigners were allowed to visit without official permission until the 1990s. As an industrial centre still, it suffers from heavy pollution issues, but is generally well maintained and provides an interesting insight into real working life in Ukraine. Like other Ukrainian cities, the choice of name has assumed political connotations since the Russian invasion of Ukraine; most Westerners use the official name "Dnipro", but Russian media and supporters of Russia still use the Soviet-era name "Dnepropetrovsk".

History[edit]
Dmytro Yavornytskiy Avenue in Dnipro
Immediately after its foundation Dnipro, or as it was then known Yekaterinoslav (Russian: Екатериносла́в, named after Catherine the Great), began to develop exclusively on the right bank of the Dnieper River. At first the city developed radially from the central point provided by the Transfiguration Cathedral. Neo-classical structures of brick and stone construction were preferred and the city began to take on the appearance of a typical European city of the era. Of these buildings many have been retained in the city's older Zhovtnevy Raion (district). Amongst the most important buildings of this era are the Transfiguration Cathedral, and a number of buildings in the area surrounding Dmytra Yavornytskoho Prospekt. Over the next few decades, until the October Revolution in 1917 the city did not change much in appearance and the predominant architectural style remained that of neo-classicism. Notable buildings built in the era preceding the Bolshevik's rise to power and the establishment of communist Ukraine and later its absorption into the Soviet Union, include the main building of the National Mining University, which was built in 1899–1901, the art-nouveau inspired building of the city's former Duma, the Dnipro National Historical Museum, and the Mechnikov Regional Hospital. Other buildings of the era that did not fit the typical architectural style of the time in Dnipro include, the Ukrainian-influenced Grand Hotel Ukraine, the Russian revivalist style railway station (since reconstructed), and the art-nouveau Astoriya building on Dmytra Yavornytskoho Prospekt.
Stalinist architecture (monumental Soviet classicism) dominates in the city centre. Once the Bolsheviks had taken power in Dnipro the city was gradually purged of tsarist-era monuments and monumental architecture was stripped of Imperial coats of arms and other non-socialist symbols. In 1917, a monument to Catherine the Great that stood in front of the Mining Institute was replaced with one of Russian academic Mikhail Lomonosov. Later, due to damage from the Second World War, a number of large buildings were reconstructed. The main railway station, for example, was stripped of its Russian-revival ornamentation and redesigned in the style of Stalinist social-realism, whilst the Grand Hotel Ukraine survived the war but was later simplified much in design, with its roof being reconstructed in a typical French mansard style as opposed to the ornamental Ukrainian baroque of the pre-war era. Other badly damaged buildings were, more often than not, demolished completely and replaced with new structures. This is one of the main reasons why much of Dnipro central avenue, Dmytra Yavornytskoho Prospekt, is designed in the style of Stalinist Social Realism. Many pre-revolution buildings were also reconstructed to suit new purposes. For example, the Emperor Nicholas II Commercial Institute in Dnipro was reconstructed to serve as the administrative centre for the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, a function it fulfils to this day. Other buildings, such as the Potemkin Palace were given over to the proletariat, in this case as the students' union of the Dnipro National University. - Stalinist architecture blends with the post-modernism of Dnipro's 'Passage' shopping and entertainment centre.
After the 1950s, the industrialisation of Dnipro became even more profound, with the Southern (Yuzhne) Missile and Rocket factory being set up in the city. However, this was not the only development and many other factories, especially metallurgical and heavy-manufacturing plants, were set up in the city. At this point Dnipro became one of the most important manufacturing cities in the Soviet Union, producing many goods from small articles like screws and vacuum cleaners to aircraft engine pieces and ballistic missiles. As a result of all this industrialisation the city's inner suburbs became increasingly polluted and were gradually given over to large, unsightly industrial enterprises. At the same time the extensive development of the city's left bank and western suburbs as new residential areas began. The low-rise tenant houses of the Khrushchev era (Khrushchyovkas) gave way to the construction of high-rise prefabricated apartment blocks (similar to German Plattenbaus). In 1976 in line with the city's 1926 renaming a large monumental statue of Grigoriy Petrovsky was placed on the square in front of the city's station. To this day the city is characterised by its mix of architectural styles, with much of the city's centre consisting of pre-revolutionary buildings in a variety of styles, stalinist buildings and constructivist architecture, whilst residential districts are, more often than not, made up of aesthetically simple, technically outdated mid-rise and high-rise housing stock from the Soviet era. Despite this, the city does have a large number of 'private sectors' were the tradition of building and maintaining individual detached housing has continued to this day. Since the independence of Ukraine in 1991 and the economic development that followed, a number of large commercial and business centres have been built in the city's outskirts.
After the Euromaidan Revolution of 2014, the new post-Euromaidan government passed a de-communization law in 2015 that made the display of communist symbols illegal. Accordingly, the city was re-named to Dnipro to remove references to Grigoriy Petrovsky, who was a communist, and the statue of Grigoriy Petrovsky was demolished.

Geography[edit]
The city is built mainly upon the both banks of the Dnieper, at its confluence with the Samara River. The area the city is built on is mainly devoid of hills and other geographical features. Being mainly flat, the land is easy to use, which explains why the city has been able to grow to such a great extent over the past 200 years. Whilst most residential, commercial, and industrial districts of the city are along the less marshy south bank of the river, some residential, commercial, and industrial areas have developed on the previously less-hospitable northern bank. Subdivisions: Amur-Nyzhnodniprovskyi, Shevchenkivskyi Sobornyi, Industrialnyi, Tsentralnyi, Chechelivskyi, Novokodatskyi, Samarskyi.

Climate[edit]
During the summer, Dnipro is very warm (average day temperature in July is 24 to 28 °C (75 to 82 °F), even hot sometimes 32 to 36 °C (90 to 97 °F). Temperatures as high as 36 °C (97 °F) have been recorded in May. Winter is not so cold (average day temperature in January is −4 to 0 °C (25 to 32 °F) but when there is no snow and the wind blows hard, it feels extremely cold. A mix of snow and rain happens usually in December. The best time for visiting the city is in late spring — late April and May and early in autumn: September and October, when the city's trees turn yellow. Other times are mainly dry with a few showers.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]





Note: Due to the state of war, Ukraine's airspace has been closed to civil aviation.





(Information last updated 19 Sep 2023)


By train[edit]
48.47744735.015161 Dnipro Main Station (Dnipro Holovnyi), Vokzalna Square, 11. Trains from Kyiv (IC+), Lviv, Odesa, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia (IC+) and other cities operate. (updated Sep 2023)
 Dnipro South Station (Dnipro Pivdennyi). 
By bus[edit]
 Bus Station, Vulitsa Kurchatova 10, ☏ +380 56 778 4090. Avtolux and Gunsel (Гюнсел) run buses from Kyiv. 
By boat[edit]
There are reports about ferries that go down the Dnieper from Kyiv.

Get around[edit]
Map of Dnipro


By public transport[edit]
Dnipro has a convenient public transport system:

92 bus routes
11 tram routes
20 trolleybus routes
1 metro line
Single ride tickets in buses cost 15 грн, in trams, trolleybuses and metro — 8 грн.
Schedules are available on the official website (in Ukrainian) and on the map.
You can also check information about public transport on EasyWay and Google Maps.

By taxi[edit]
Taxi is the easiest way of getting around the city. Some popular taxi companies include:

 Uber (Убер). (updated Sep 2023)
 Bolt (Болт). (updated Sep 2023)
 Uklon (Уклон). (updated Sep 2023)
 OnTaxi (ОнТаксі). (updated Sep 2023)
 Opti (Опті). (updated Sep 2023)
 Shark (Шарк). (updated Oct 2023)
By scooter[edit]
Kick scooter is a funny way to shorten your time while getting around the city.

 Bolt (Болт). (updated Sep 2023)
 JET.UA. (updated Sep 2023)
By car (rental)[edit]
It is possible to take car via car sharing company Getmancar.

See[edit]
48.46504735.0451281 Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho. This links the two major architectural ensembles of the city and constitutes an important thoroughfare through the centre, which along with various suburban radial road systems, provides some of the area's most vital transport links for both suburban and inter-urban travel. Take a walk in the new European square and visit the beautifully painted town cathedral before taking a walk down the main boulevard to the military museum and the monument with a beautiful view over the Dnieper river. There is also Historical Museum, Diorama “Battle for the Dnieper River (Second World War)”, Shevchenko Park, and Potemkin Palace nearby.  
48.45583335.0638892 Historical Museum, Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho (East end on the top of the hill).   
 Monument of Glory, Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho (East end). War monument overlooking the Dnieper river. 
Churches[edit]
48.45825335.0666363 Preobrazhensky Cathedral, Soborna Square, 1, ☏ +380 56 744 88 19. The oldest cathedral in Dnipro. Catherine the Great, Austrian Emperor Joseph II, and prince Grigory Potemkin put its first stone on May 9, 1787. The first plan of the cathedral was made by a French architect Claude Geruax. Its building was postponed because of the Russo-Turkish War. The second plan of the cathedral was designed by Ivan Starov, a famous Russian architect from St. Petersburg and approved by Catherine the Great in 1792. Building of the cathedral was completed only during the reign of Nicholas I of Russia (Catherine’s grandson) in 1835. In 1950s it was proved that the final plan of the cathedral was designed by Andreyan Zakharov who was a chief architect of the Admiralty in St. Petersburg. In 1975 – 1988 the cathedral functioned as the museum of religion and atheism. Nowadays it functions as a cathedral and is open to public. In front of the cathedral is a beautiful rose garden.   
 ChurchSviato-Pokrovs'ka (Свято-Покровська церква), Klubna str., 34. 
 Saint Nicholas church (Sviato-Mykolaivs'ka church, Свято-Миколаївська церква), Zhelyabova str., 31. Built in 2010 on the site, after the Revolution lost shrine, Saint Nicholas Church, which built in 1896. The temple was once one of the largest and most beautiful in the city. However, in 1937 the church was burned. 
 Trinity Church (Church Tr'okhsviatytel's'ka, Трьохсвятительська церква), Yurydychna str.,1 (On the left bank). 
 Church of Icon of Our Lady Ivers'ka (the northern "golden gate" of the city, Храм Ікони Божої Матері Іверська), Semaforna, 60 (picturesque location in a pine forest adjacent to the edge North). On the spot where now stands The temple ensemble, in the old days was an ancient settlement - Settlement Old Smara, which was built near the fort Novobogoroditskaya. Temple - a beautiful building - red brick, with marble altar and a white marble throne. To create an iconostasis used earlier does not apply to Orthodox culture pink onyx gemstone, which was brought from Iran. In the decoration of the temple there is no brightness, pathos and luxury, just a quiet dignity. Rector of the church - Father Nicholas, a man is truly amazing! 
 Saint Mykolaiv church (Свято-Миколаївська церква), Zhovtenyat str., 108. The oldest temple of the city. The stone church was built in the classical style in New Kodak instead existed from 1650 wooden church Cossack. Phillips, a highly elongated and western branch of the semi-circular apse, with a small square extensions. The interior of the temple are preserved paintings of the twentieth century. One-dome church with a bell tower, kept in a stone line of Wooden Architecture. Among the ancient shrines of the temple are relics of Archbishop Theodosius and St. Lawrence Chernigov. 
 Exaltation of the Cross? Church (Khrestovozdvizhenska Tserkvs Свято-Хрестовоздвиженська церква) (In urban residential areas of the 'Communards'). The oldest temple of the regional center 
 Bryansk church (Брянська церква), Kalinina ave., 66. "Bryansk" - under the name of the area (Bryansk colony). This is three-storey building with bell tower and with a towerclock. Built in neoclassical style, with abundant decoration. Because of the size and grandeur of this church is able to compete with the major temples of the city - the Transfiguration, the Assumption and Trinity. After Revolution it was transformed by an organ hall. In 1988 he opened in Dnipro "The House of Organ and Chamber Music," which operates to this day. 
 Holy Prince Vladimir Church? (Церква Святого Равноапостольного князя Володимира), Ave. Vokzalna, 4. 
 Baptists Church (Церква християн-баптистів), Antonovycha str., 71. 
48.46294435.0454444 Holy Trinity Cathedral (Свято-Троїцький кафедральний собор), Troitska sq., 7. It was built on the site of the first urban church in honor of Our Lady of Kazan. There are some ancient relics: the iconostasis of the church of the Kazan and the tomb of St. Nicholas (Bryansk) Cathedral. In 1934 the church was closed "for lack of parishioners." Dropped bells, tore the crosses. In the enclosure of the temple have placed numerous shops, workshops, warehouses. In November 1941, during the German occupation, the cathedral resumed archiepiscopal chair and worship. Today it is the central church of the Diocese of Dnipropetrovsk Ukrainian Orthodox Church.   
 Holy Tikhvin convent (Свято-Тихвінський жіночий монастир), Chicherina str., 171. This is the only monastery that is located in the city. In 1866 this place was founded the predecessor of the monastery - Ekaterinoslavskaya female community, and in 1877 he erected the first church of the monastery - St. Barbara, and the female community was renamed in Tikhvin convent. 
48.47302835.027255 Shrine of St. Catherine Lutheran Church (Німецька Євангелічно-лютеранська церква Святої Катерини), Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho 103 (Center). This was founded In 1852 in Yekaterinoslav (former name of Dnipro). Built between 1865 and 1866. 1941 - The Germans was restored and service resumed. Later with the arrival of the Red Army's this religious community house was closed.   
 Church of St. Joseph (Костел Св. Йосифа), Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho 91. This Roman Catholic Church was built in the 1900s. 
 St. Nicholas Church (Свято-Миколаївська церква) (Monastic (Monasterskyi) island). This is a white church with a golden dome, which is perfectly visible from various points of observation, has become a recognized symbol of Dnipro. According to legend, in 870 by Byzantine monks in the Monastery was founded by the island monastery, and in 957 they hid from the weather traveling companion Princess Olga, who was with her and Bishop Gregory allegedly founded a church on the island.  
 Spaso-Preobrazhensky Cathedral (Спасо-Преображенський кафедральний собор), Oktyabr'skaya sq., 15A. Daily worship. This is a true gem and a great shrine of the Dnipropetrovsk region. After WW2, dilapidated church into a warehouse of paper publishing, "Zorya". In 1975-1988 the temple housed the Museum of Religion and Atheism. In 1992 the church was handed over to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Try to hear the songs performed by the best church choir Dnipropetrovsk diocese. 
 Temple of Icon of the Divine mother (Храм Ікони Божої матері «В скорботі і печалях втіха»), Mandrykovska str., 113. The church was rebuilt in 2007, in the Ukrainian Baroque style. The temple complex consists of a church in honor of the Mother of God "in the grief and sorrow consolation," and memorial to the dead inhabitants of the city. Commemorative stela set up in the form of granite towers and a half meters and a bronze composition, where the two angels holding hands on the body of the deceased child. On the granite slab inscribed with the names of all 23 victims. 
 Saint Panteleimon church (Свято-Пантелеймонівський храм), Petrova Kombriga str., 10. The project is a new church resembles a famous temple of the Protection-in-Nerl, which built according to legend, Prince Andrew Bogolyubsky in 12th century. The temple will have impressive dimensions (45-m high) 
Synagogues[edit]
 Minor Synagogue (Синагога), Kotsiubinskogo str., 7. This can rightly be called one of the wonders of Dnipro. This was saved only synagogue. The building is the old synagogue in May 1998 was granted the yeshiva. After all, Jewish tradition prohibits lowering the sanctity of anything. And if a hundred years the walls of the building heard the prayers and Torah reading, they can not suddenly become the walls of the shop or office. Yeshiva - a place where not only pray, a place where all day, with half of the seven in the morning until half past seven in the evening, learn Torah, here Soifer learn to write sacred texts. Thus, the old synagogue building continues to serve the holy purpose. 
48.463935.05316 Golden Rose Choral Synagogue (Хоральная синагога "Золота роза"), Sholom Aleikhema str., 4. Founded in the 1800s. After the October Revolution in 1920, "at the request of workers of the Jews" settled here first Jewish Workers' Club, and then - used for Volodarsky cultural garment factory building. - After the separation of Ukraine from Russia Choral Synagogue "Golden Rose" is especially proud of today's Jews of Dnipro. The name "Golden Rose" folk, but now - "Touray Zahav" (the name of the main work of David Halevy, a commentary on "Shurhan Aruch"). David Halevywas the author of the ritual code, and, as he often prayed here, and that the synagogue was named in honor of his work. Over time, the value of the name has been forgotten, and it began to pronounce as "Touray Reizl" ("Golden Rose").   
Novomoskovsk[edit]
Novomoskovsk (Новомосковськ, Новомосковск), 27 km northeast from Dnipro, has these sights:

 Trinity Cathedral (Троицкий собор), Ploschad Pobedy (Sq.Victory,пл. Победы) 1, ☏ +380 569 38-00-74. A unique monument of Ukrainian Baroque, built in 1778 by Yakym Pohrybniak from wood without any nails. 
 Samara monastery (Самарский монастырь), Novomoskovsk, Boarding House (Дом-интернат), ☏ +380 561 22-4246, +380 561 22-4342. 
Do[edit]
Parks[edit]
48.43635.0421 Botanical garden (Ботанічний сад), Gagarina ave (пр. Гагаріна, 72) (Krasnopovstancheskaya district). Place for the future of the garden has been chosen before the revolution - in the southwestern part of the city's main hill (the Cathedral Mountain), in the steppes near the Town villas, which stretched several miles almost to the current substations. Opened in 1930. During the war, the garden was completely destroyed and had to rebuild it from scratch. Part of the former territory was ceded to Gagarin park and some - for building the campus of the University.  
 Gagarin park (Парк ім. Юрія Гагаріна), Gagarina ave (пр. Гагаріна, 72а) (Next to Botanical garden). 
48.46333335.0730562 Shevchenko park (Парк імені Тараса Шевченка) (Walk up the main boulevard for 5 blocks from European Square and then turn left, where you'll find a bridge that takes you across to one of the island parks.). If you get time it's worth visiting the island parks on the Dnieper. Here you can enjoy some relatively clean air, take a quiet stroll in the center of the city, pick up an ice cream or beer, and take a ride on some of the features of the old Soviet-style funfair.   
 Monastic Island (Монастирський острів) (The historic core of the city). A memorial cross in honor of the Byzantine monks built at Cape Nicholas Church (1999). From Soviet times, there is a monument to Taras Shevchenko, open zoo, and children's amusement park. 
Theatres[edit]
 Comedy and Drama Theatre in Dnipro (Дніпровський академічний театр драми і комедії). 
Work[edit]
Central Square is a small extension to Maidan heroes square, next to the Europe Shopping-Centre
Buy[edit]
 Europe Shopping-Centre (Center). 
Eat[edit]
Borscht, cutlet po Kyiv, and cutlet po domashnyomu, olivier (mayonnaise salad) and plove for a good rice dish.
For a quick meal get a schwarma, there is a great place in the city center.

 Amphora Cafe, Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho and Furmanova (Near the Monument of Glory). Greek cuisine. 
 Italian Quarter, Kharkivska 3 (A block east of European Square). Italian cuisine. Good pizza. 
 Mimino, Sicheslavska naberezhna (about 1500 m north of 'Hotel Dnepropetrovsk', a 15-minute walk along river embankment). morning till late. Excellent service and friendly staff, nice food with views overlooking the river. On many afternoons and evenings there is a live band. Very nice atmosphere. 30-250 грн. (updated Sep 2023)
 [dead link] Myshi Blyakhera (Мыши Бляхера), 46 Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho (near tram station, underground). Trendy cafe in the city center. Check the origin of their name, it is unusual. 
 Nirvana, Globy Park (Near the theater shell in the central park). Authentic Georgian cuisine with both indoor and outdoor tables. 
 Puzata Hata, Liebknecht / Marx str.. 08:00-21:00. Ukrainian national cuisine. A vast range of meals. 160-280 грн. (updated Sep 2023)
 [dead link] Shamrock Irish Pub, Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho 41 (Near Gogol monument). Irish cuisine 
Drink[edit]
Though there are few quality drinking spots, some do exist. The best would be Reporter on Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho - a couple blocks past the town square. The second would be Master Schmidt, which has some live music and is a bit more alternative (on Schmidt Street about 3 or 4 blocks up from Prospekt Dmytra Yavornytskoho). For more of a club scene there is Labyrinth and Berlin (inquire locally for the exact location). And if you choose to be really adventurous, you can attempt a Metro Party - getting off at each of the 5 metro stops and drinking a drink. Lastly, for more of a local scene you can simply have a drink on the street-- by the river which is a quite nice walk or just in the city center. This is the custom known as drinking "na lavochke".

Sleep[edit]
Dnieper River, on left the bridge to Monastic Island, on right the Eastern part of the three km long Promenad
There are a nice amount of hotels around the city. It's also possible to rent an apartment.

Budget[edit]
Hotel Dinamo
Mid-range[edit]
Hotel Dnipropetrovsk. Along the embankment and close to the city center, address 33 Naberezhna. Rooms "economy-class" on the 6th floor in 1970ss style, and all furniture not maintained, looks very old and ugly.
 Optima Collection Dnipro (Optima Collection Дніпро), 53A Shevchenka Street, ☏ +380 563713719, +380 672196434, dnipro.shevchenka@optimahotels.com.ua. Check-in: 14:00, check-out: 12:00. From 2,079 грн. (updated Sep 2023)
 Optima Collection Troitska (Optima Collection Троїцька), 12A Troitska Street, ☏ +380 567907400, +380 567907401, +380 672381598, dnipro.troitska@optimahotels.com.ua. Check-in: 14:00, check-out: 12:00. From 1,597 грн. (updated Sep 2023)
Splurge[edit]
48.46530635.0436791 Grand Hotel Ukraina, Korolenka ul. 2, ☏ +38 056 7901441.   (updated Aug 2018)
Connect[edit]
Stay safe[edit]
Be wary of groups of drunken people roaming around.  Be careful drinking on the street at night because although the number has decreased since the 1990s, Gopniks still exist in Dnipro.  They are people that enjoy drinking and fighting and little else and will not hesitate to fight you.

Go next[edit]
Kamianske - a major industrial center near Dnipro.
Gulyaypole - the city during the Civil War, the former biggest village in Ukraine (by population) and the capital of Makhnovshchina.
Henichesk is a popular resort at Azov Sea
Nikopol
Mariupol, 200 km to the southeast, is a climatic and mud resort and part of the Pryazovia area.
Zaporizhzhia, 60 km to the southeast, is the center of Zaporizhzhia region, part of the Dnieper Ukraine area.







This city travel guide to Dnipro is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Dnipro&oldid=4859010"