
Dunmore is a borough in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania.  It is located outside of Scranton.    


Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
Dunmore, PA is about 20 minutes north of the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport in Avoca.  This airport operates daily flights to Atlanta, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Detroit, Chicago, Philadelphia, and Charlotte. There are also Rental cars available from a variety of companies at the terminal.
Dunmore is also around three hours driving distance away from the Newark International Airport in New Jersey, the JFK International Airport in New York City, and the Philadelphia International Airport in Philadelphia.

By car[edit]
Dunmore can be accessed primarily by car.  From the New England region is I-84 West.  From New York city area is I-80 East and I-380 North.  From the Penn State or Pittsburgh areas are I-80 West and I-380 North.  From the Allentown and Philadelphia areas is I-476 (the Pennsylvania Turnpike Northeast Extension).  From the Syracuse area is I-80 South.  From the Washington DC area is I-80 North.

By bus[edit]
A few bus lines are offered to take people into the city of Scranton, which is just minutes away from Dunmore.  These bus lines are Martz Trailways and Greyhound Bus Line.  Martz Trailways operates to New York City and Philadelphia Daily.  Greyhound Bus Line has a stop in Scranton along with Harrisburg, Binghamton, Allentown, Philadelphia, New York City, and many more.

Get around[edit]
Easy ways to get around Dunmore and the surrounding area are by bicycle, car, foot, or bus.  
The bicycle community is increasing with the increase in the price of gas.  There is a great deal of groups involved in biker safety and biker awareness.  Biking around the area is a safe and easy way to get around.
The most popular way to travel around the area is by car.  With many highways available to Dunmore, it is easy to get out and get around.  Private taxicabs such as Posten and McCarthy service the area as well. They are hired by telephone through central dispatch and cannot be hailed on the street as in larger cities. 
Walking is also a safe and easy way to get around Dunmore.  Being a very small town, it is also very safe so people should not feel threatened walking to get around.
County of Lackawanna Transit System (COLTS) also operates public buses throughout all parts of the city and a few Lackawanna County extremities. The system typically operates from 7AM-7PM and does not operate on Sundays or Holidays. 

See[edit]
Do[edit]
Dunmore is a home to many things.  There is the center of town, called the Dunmore Corners, that holds many family run stores, restaurants, and bars.  Among these restaurants and stores are Cara Mia's, The Dunmore Candy Kitchen, Doma's Importing Co., The Bucktown Diner, Kathy Karen's Children Shop, and many more.  TThere are many other bars, restaurants, and shops throughout the city including The Honky Tonk, New China Star, Ragnacci's, Gertude Hawk Chocolates, and many others.  Dunmore is a small town that still has tons to do.

Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Dunmore has several hotels around the area.  In the borough itself it has a Holiday Inn, a Sleep Inn and Suites, a Days Inn, the Dunmore Inn, and a few more.  However, you can also go outside of Dunmore and stay in Scranton which contains many more hotels.

Go next[edit]


Routes through Dunmore




Binghamton ← Clarks Summit ←

 N  S 

→ Scranton → Harrisburg


Scranton via   ←

 W  E 

→ Port Jervis → Jct W  E → Newburgh


Scranton via   ←

 N  S 

→ Jct  S → Jct W  E


Mansfield ← Scranton ←

 W  E 

→ Carbondale → Central Valley-Harriman









This city travel guide to Dunmore is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Dunmore&oldid=4688698"