
The town of Ede is best known as an entry point to Hoge Veluwe National Park. And indeed, although the city will not be high on any traveller's list, it is very well-suited as a base to explore the Veluwe and the natural surroundings, which consist of forests and farmlands, dotted with villages. If you were thinking of taking a bike trip - an excellent part of your Dutch travels - this is a fine place to go for it. In 2019, Ede was home to 116,000 people.


Get in[edit]
More than anything, Ede serves travellers as a base to explore the landscapes and wildlife of the Hoge Veluwe National Park.
Ede is easily reached by car, using the A12 (from Utrecht and Arnhem) and the newly finished A30 (from Amersfoort and Apeldoorn). The A12 can get quite congested during rush hours.
The city's main train station is called Ede-Wageningen, and has direct intercity connections to Utrecht (25 min), Amsterdam (1 hr), Nijmegen and Amersfoort, as well as smaller stations on those lines. The station is located 3 km south of the city center.  Trains run roughly every 15 minutes between 05:00 and 01:00. A smaller station called Ede Centrum is located in the town centre and served by regional trains. It offers connections to the out-of-town intercity station and to Amersfoort.
Although less convenient for longer distances, the extensive network of bus lines can be useful to get to the Hoge Veluwe National Park, and to smaller, nearby destinations. To get to the park entrance, take bus 108 to Otterlo. There, change to bus 106 to Hoenderloo and get out at either the park's Visitor Centre or at the Kröller-Müller Museum. With some 160 different bus services in the region, it's best to plan any other trips through the national public transport trip planner on 9292OV.
With recreational bicycle and walking tours as one of the main attractions, bicycle lanes and walking paths are abundantly available. Major highways excepted, you'll generally find one along any street.

Get around[edit]
If you arrive by train, you'll probably end up on intercity station 'Ede-Wageningen', which is about 3 km (2 mi) south of the centre of town. From there, you can either walk, hop on a local train or catch a bus to the centre. Bus lines are good, not too expensive, and frequent (except at night). Of course, you could also take a taxi.
Hiring a bike is also a good alternative. Ede is generally flat, although the northeast corner of the town is elevated a bit, as it rises towards the heather fields and forests of the Veluwe. Bicycle lanes and paths in and around Ede, just like anywhere on the Veluwe, are excellent.

See[edit]
The Ginkelse Heide near Ede
The town may not be of major interest, but it receives many visitors nonetheless. Many stay in the city as a base to explore the natural beauty of the Veluwe region, or more specifically the Hoge Veluwe National Park. A popular domestic short stay destination, this is one of the most extensive and interesting national parks in the country. At a stone's throw from town, the park's relatively extensive forests begin. Other parts of the park feature heathlands, desert patches with shifting sands, streams and small lakes.
The whole region played an important role in the country's liberation during World War II. As part of Operation Market Garden, Allied soldiers parachuted into the Ginkelse Heide close to Ede before marching on Arnhem. In Ede (like in neighbouring towns), several monuments were established in remembrance of World War II and the soldiers who gave their lives. The main one is the Airborne Monument on the Ginkelse Heide landing area.

 Historisch Museum Ede (Historical Museum Ede), Molenstraat 45. M-F 09:30-20:00, Sa 10:00-17:00. Although little information is available in English, this small museum offers temporary exhibitions on local history through archeological finds, historic artifacts, paintings and pictures. There are no permanent exhibitions. Free. (updated Aug 2022)
Do[edit]
The main activities are obvious: bicycle tours and hiking routes are the area's main attraction, and the activity of choice for most of its visitors. There's a wide range of routes available from the Tourist Information Office and plenty of road directions on the way.
Performances are in Dutch, but if you can understand any of it, the Openluchttheater (open air theatre) can be a fun way to spend some time.
The yearly Heideweek festival taking place in the last week of August offers a week full of activities ranging from music to flea markets to folkloric events.
Buy[edit]
As a mid-sized Dutch town, Ede has a good range of standard stores, including several well-known fashion and department stores. The main shopping street consists of the Grotestraat and the following Maandereind. Friday evening, most shops in the centre stay open until 21:00 and most supermarkets are open until 21:00 on all opening days. On Sundays, opening hours are limited and many non-essential stores may be closed.
The main market is held on Saturdays (08:00-17:00), when some 50 stalls set up om the Markt along the Molenstraat. On Monday mornings (08:00-14:00) about 35 stalls can be found at the same spot.

Eat[edit]
Although you'll find establishments scattered throughout town, some of the cafes and restaurants are concentrated in and around three streets: Museumplein (just outside Ede Centrum railway station) The Parkweg, (close to the Ede-Wageningen main station) and the Marktplein on the northern end of the town centre.
Some of the most popular picks include:

 Restaurant Pomphuis, Klinkenbergerweg 41, ☏ +31 318 653 133. Simple but well-prepared, classic dishes. Portions are fillings, service is good and friendly. A local favourite. €27.50 for a 3-course meal. 
 Rhodos, Telefoonweg 70, ☏ +31 8 654 007. This Greek restaurant has a range of regulars who come for the steady supply of descent Greek dishes as well as for the very friendly service. 
Lokaalede.nl[dead link] This website offers different kinds of food boxes with a wide range of locally produced products.
Drink[edit]
For any serious nightlife you're better off in Nijmegen, but if you're just looking for a good way to spend your evening, Ede does have a rather large number of nice cafés and bars. Your best bet when looking for cold beers and a chat is to head to the Museumplein, where you'll have a bunch of good places to choose from.

 Petticoat, Nieuwe Stationsstraat 12. This place is only open Fridays and Saturdays. On those days, local youngsters gather here for drinks, dance and a range of musical styles. The volume is high and the crowd mixed. 
 Café Premier, Nieuwe Stationsstraat 19. 12:00-02:00. This grand café is open for lunch but also popular in the evenings, as groups of friends sit down for chats and drinks. In summer, the large outdoor terrace is a lively but laid-back spot. Open seven days a week. 
Sleep[edit]
 Reehorst, Bennekomseweg 24, ☏ +31 318-750300. Close to the intercity train station, in a natural setting. Bike rental is available. The 88 rooms include standard ones and more detailed suites, with prices varying accordingly. Ask for one of the renovated rooms if possible. There's a spacious lobby, good restaurant and the staff is helpful and nice. Breakfast comes at an extra charge for most bookings. From €69. 
 Belmont, Goorsteeg 66, ☏ +31 318 48 23 65. This modern, nicely decorated hotel at a 5-min drive from the city offers 50 comfortable rooms. For small and large groups, there's also a dormitory and a camp site with set up tents (bring your own towels and sleeping bag though). Room prices include breakfast, camp prices include breakfast, lunch and dinner as well as coffee or tea. The friendly staff offers good service and the restaurant is nice too. Set amidst forest grounds, it has a large hotel grounds on which a range of outdoor activities can be arranged. The hotel is run by the Dutch Salvation Army and no alcohol is served on its property. Internet comes at a charge, bike rental is available. €69/89 for single/double rooms, €29.50 p.p. for the camp site. 
 Hotel de Paasberg, Arnhemseweg 20-22, ☏ +31 318-651020. Part of the hotel has been renovated and now has good value, modern rooms. It pays to ask for one of those when booking. Even when you're in the somewhat more dated parts of the building however, rooms are spacious and adequate. The staff is good, the town centre just around the corner and the main train station is nearby. There's a pretty good Asian fusion restaurant attached to the hotel. €65. 
 Bospark Ede, Zonneoordlaan 47 (near the Veluwe), ☏ +31 88 - 500 2471. Check-in: 15:00-17:00, check-out: 10:00. Bospark Ede is a holiday park with spacious and well decorated holiday homes. It is near the Veluwe, which makes it ideal for long hikes. €200 for a spacious group accommodation. (updated Aug 2019)
Stay safe[edit]
The Ede-Wageningen railway station is best avoided past midnight. Otherwise, Ede is quite safe. In the surrounding forests or heaths, there's a small chance of encountering wild boars. If you spot one, do not approach. Simply walk away.

Go next[edit]
The obvious next stop for more visitors is of course the Veluwe, but other historic cities and natural areas are just a short drive away.

Wageningen is an historic town just around the corner, with a cozy town centre and a small but nice museum. It was founded in 1263, and has a long history as the Dutch centre for agricultural research and development. It was the site of the official 1945 surrender of the German forces, which ended World War II.
Nijmegen lays claim to being the oldest city in the country, and this lively university city has the heritage to back it up.
Amersfoort has an impressive list of monuments and an excellent stop on your way back west..
Arnhem, known for its World War II background, and the old Hansaec city of Deventer are both pleasant cities packed with history.
Utrechtse Heuvelrug National Park offers more nature, just a few kilometres west of town.


Routes through Ede




The Hague ← Veenendaal ←

 W  E 

→ Wageningen → Arnhem









This city travel guide to Ede is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ede&oldid=4855994"