
Efon-Alaaye is a town in Ekiti State. It is predominantly dominated by the Yorubas of the South West Nigeria.


Understand[edit]
Efon-Alaaye, according to the population census conducted in the town recorded a population count of about 280,000 population count in an updated version count. Most of the inhabitants of the Efon-Alaaye are known to be farmers, as farming is the most predominant occupation in the town. The Efon-Alaaye town is also full of a lot of hills in the town as it has relatively rough terrains.

Get in[edit]
There is no airport in Efon-Alaaye, however, there is an airport in Ilorin, which happens to be the closest airport to Efon-Alaaye, that means if a tourist wants to get into Efon-Alaaye by plane, then the tourists must be ready to get to Ilorin first and use a bus or cab to get into Efon-Alaaye.

By plane[edit]
 Ilorin International Airport, Ilorin. Airport serving Ilorin area in Nigeria (updated Jan 2022)
The Ilorin Airport is just about 159 km from Efon-Alaaye, so this means if a tourist follows the Ilorin Airport route into Efon-Alaaye, the tourist would still have to travel about 159 km to get into Efon-Alaaye.

By bus[edit]
This is the most popular method of getting into Efon-Alaaye, there are buses readily available at bus parks to get you into Efon-Alaaye, all you need to do is to get to the park and request for a bus traveling to Efon-Alaaye and you can get on the bus. From Lagos to Efon-Alaaye is about 4 hr 30 min drive and the bus price ranges from ₦4,000 to ₦5,000 depending on the situation of the road networks or the amount of fuel at the time.

Get around[edit]
7°39′23″N 4°55′20″EMap of Efon-Alaaye
You can surely get around Efon-Alaaye by bus, cab, okada (motorcycles). This is the major way to get around, there is the availability of buses that ply different routes within the town, Okada (motorbikes) are also very much available to take you around Efon-Alaaye, so depending on your preference, you can select the mode by which you want to get around through.

See[edit]
There are tourists attractions centres that tourists to Efon-Alaaye should ensure they see, some of which are:

 Ìpole Waterfalls, Efon-Alaaye. A popular waterfall in Efon-Alaaye, a beautiful tourists attraction for tourists to the town. (updated Jan 2022)
 Ìkogosi Warm Spring, 30 minutes drive from Efon-Alaaye. A warm spring in Nigeria, one of the most popular.  (updated Jan 2022)
Do[edit]
Efon-Alaaye is a town surrounded by a whole lot of hills, so tourists to Efon-Alaaye could go there and do some hill-climbing exercise as well as some sightseeing of the environs.
Tourists to Efon-Alaaye should also ensure they pay a visit to 'Alaaye of Efon-Alaaye' Palace, this is the King of Efon-Alaaye, and there are some tourists attractions in his palace, as expected the palace of a king.
Buy[edit]
 Ayo Fayose Ultramodern Market, Efon Alaaye. Ultramodern Market in Efon-Alaaye. (updated Jan 2022)
 Mosebolatan Medicine and Supermarket Store, Efon Alaaye. A medical supermart in Efon-Alaaye. (updated Jan 2022)
Eat[edit]
 Iya Tomiwa, Efon Alaaye. A food joint in Efon-Alaaye, 'mama put' restaurant. (updated Jan 2022)
 Ayinkus Bar. A restaurant to eat that also doubles as a bar. (updated Jan 2022)
Drink[edit]
 Ayinkus Bar. A bar to drink (updated Jan 2022)
Sleep[edit]
 G-Unit Hotel & Suites, Along Efon-Alaaye Road, ☏ +234 805 088 8872. Cool hotel to sleep (updated Dec 2021)
 Lamjay Hotel Efon Alaaye, Ita-Odo Street. Hotel to sleep. (updated Jan 2022)
Connect[edit]
For most locations in Efon-Alaaye, you would most likely find coverage of the 2G/3G/4G mobile networks. Signal strength might diminish further away from the city center, and you might occasionally experience network outages for all or some of the mobile phone service providers in the remote areas of the city. Different networks tend to be more stable and reliable in different locations of the city at different times.
MTN, 9Mobile, Airtel (Zain), and GLO are all available service providers. So if you are planning a visit to Efon-Alaaye, as you would do for many other places in Nigeria, you should probably consider having multiple SIM cards, preferably for all the mobile service providers, since you can't tell which will be more stable and reliable at a time in your location during your visit. And if you will risk not having any of them, you might be better off not risking the MTN network, because, from indications, it seems to perform well than the others, though its rates may be high and its offers and services might be stringent, you are less likely to be concerned of erratic voice and data connection compared to others.
Airtel is another service provider which is fairly satisfactory for all you might need to connect to the world, including rates and network reliability. Of course, Glo (or Globacom) boasts of fast network speed for internet browsing activities, only that you might not be able to enjoy the privilege in some locations. And 9Mobile (formerly Etisalat) usually also performs well in internet browsing speed too but with locational limitations as well, plus data rate is fairly higher.

Go next[edit]
Edo State
Benin
Isolo
Magodo
Ekiti State
Ise Ekiti
Ilawe-Ekiti





This city travel guide to Efon-Alaaye is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Efon-Alaaye&oldid=4509264"