
Eulo is a small town in South Western Queensland.  The town centre is a few kilometres from the Paroo River, and it is the second largest town in Paroo Shire after Cunnamulla.


Get in[edit]
Eulo is 60 km from Cunnamulla on sealed road.  The road is mostly single lane sealed, with a wider gravel verge. You have to pull off to the side for oncoming traffic, or pull off the road entirely for road trains.  Nearest car rental and daily scheduled air travel is in Charleville.

Get around[edit]
The town itself only consists of a few houses and shops. Most of the heritage trail can be walked. You will need a car to get out to the mud springs or the Paroo.

See[edit]
 Lizard Racing Track. Once a year Eulo hosts the lizard races.  At other times of year you can see the track and imagine what it would be like with 5000 people in the town watching the races. 
 Mud Springs (just over the Paroo river on the Thargomindah Road). The mud springs are areas of raised and soft mud where water can flow from the Great Artesian Basin.  The mud springs are not very muddy, and there is no water flowing.  Interesting local landscape though, and if you have made it this far, you may as well go and visit them. free. 
Do[edit]
 Swim in the Paroo River (At the wier). Depending on water flow (not too much, not too little) you can swim in the Paroo River.  A small weir has been built just by the road bridge.  A better swimming hole on the Paroo is available to the south at Caiwarro in the Currawinya National Park. free. 
The Paroo river crossing and weir at Eulo
 Mud Bath. The date farm will fill a cast iron bath up with water, and give you a variety of mud to put in it.  The Paroo river just down the road allows you to do the same thing free of charge (albeit it considerably colder and with fish). 
Buy[edit]
 Date Wine, Date Sauce, Dates. The Date Farm has date wine and other date products for sale. 
 Paroo Patch (Middle of town, opposite the general store). Locally made handicrafts.  Nice leatherwork.  Small store. 
 Opals (At the general store). Opals are mined at nearby Yowah and are for sale at the pub and at the general store. 
 Honey. Beekeepers bring their bees to Eulo each winter to feed on the nectar of the Eucalyptus trees. Paroo honey can be purchased at the general store, along with a real beehive on display. 
Eat[edit]
 Eulo Queen Hotel, Leo St, ☏ +61 7 4655 4867. Dinner nightly from 6:30pm, and lunch daily. Mains around $15. 
 Eulo General Store, ☏ +61 7 4655 4900. Toasted sandwiches, pies and sausage rolls and toasted sandwiches. 
Drink[edit]
 Eulo Queen Hotel. Historical pub, named after the Eulo Queen during the town's opal mining heyday. 
Sleep[edit]
 Eulo Queen Hotel. This is the only place to stay in Eulo.  It six non-ensuite rooms and some cabins.  Toilets and showers are out the back.  The pub rooms just have a thin foam mattress and heating & cooling is a little antiquated. 
Connect[edit]
There is free Wi-Fi at the Eulo Queen Hotel.  There is no Optus or Vodafone mobile reception in Eulo.

Go next[edit]
The Currawinya National Park is just to the south of Eulo.  The turnoff is to the left just beyond the Paroo River Bridge.  The other side of the park is Hungerford.  Continue west 200kn or so Thargomindah, or take a day trip to the opal fields at Yowah.







This city travel guide to Eulo is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Eulo&oldid=4234391"