
Faisalabad (Urdu: فيصل آباد), formerly known as Lyallpur, is the third largest city in Pakistan and second largest city in the Province of Punjab.


Understand[edit]
Get in[edit]
Skyline of Faisalabad
By plane[edit]
There are international flights to Faisalabad from most major cities in Pakistan as well as regional hubs.

31.36281272.9878461 Faisalabad International Airport.   (updated Jun 2020)
By bus[edit]
Faisalabad is connected with Islamabad  (the national capital), Lahore (the provincial capital) and other big cities by motorway and National Highway. You can easily catch a comfortable bus from these cities for Faisalabad, like Daewoo Express, Khan brothers, Nadir coach, Ravi Express, Kohistan, Niazi Express, New Subhan, Hilal Travels and New Khan etc...

By train[edit]
Faisalabad is connected with all big cities of the country by rail. The most comfortable and affordable trains connects Faisalabad with Lahore and Karachi.
While in the city, you can hire a local cab or an auto rickshaw. There is a franchised bus service called "METRO"; it is also operated within the city. However, auto rickshaws stay out to be the favorite means of travel.

31.41735473.0967142 Faisalabad railway station (فيصل آباد ریلوے اسٹیشن), Rajbah Rd.   (updated Jun 2020)
Get around[edit]
31°24′57″N 73°5′3″EMap of Faisalabad
By rickshaw[edit]
Rickshaws are the most widely used and economical means of quick travel around the city.

By taxi[edit]
Some taxis are available at airport.
There are buses and rented cars.

See[edit]
Clock tower
31.42175273.0835691 Lyallpur Museum.   (updated Jun 2020)
 Ghanta Ghar (Clock Tower). This is the main market of Faisalabad, the oldest area of the city. The market has eight bazaars, which together form a "Union Jack" (British flag), being a part of the construction work under the British Raj. Here you can find remains of Raj buildings, built before Pakistan came into being. (updated Oct 2017)
31.41673.08692 Cathedral of Sts. Peter and Paul. Built in 1969, this cathedral has played a significant role in promoting harmony and understanding between the nation’s religious communities.   (updated Jun 2022)
Gatwala Park - is situated on the Faisalabad-Shekhupura Road. It is a common picnic spot for schools and occasionally families.
D ground - is the second most important market after Ghanta Gghar. This is also the busiest area in the evening. Here local people usually come out in the evening just for an outing, or for shopping. You will also find a lot of restaurants here.
Jinnah Garden - is also a beautiful park in the city commonly known as "Company Bagh".  The tomb of H.E. Sir Charles James Lyall, is situated here. He was the founder of this city and the city was first named Lyallpur in his honor.
Am Tex Waterfall - at Am Tex Squire, AbdullahPur.
Canal Park - at the west bank of Rakh Branch Canal. It is also a good outing place for families.
The Chenab_Club - The majestic Chenab Club standing in the shades of trees and complemented by vast lush green lawns, is located in the beautiful surroundings of "Jinnah Garden". The club is in the heart of the city, just a short walk from Railway Station and within walking distance of Clock Tower.
Gatwala park - It is a wild life & forest park located almost 10-15 km away grom central city.
Iqbal stadium - It is a cricket stadium there are amusement parks like sindabad and funnland and a lot of shopes.
Do[edit]
Buy[edit]
The main commercial area with shopping venues is centered in the D-Ground area.

Clothing - Faisalabad is famous for its cloth and cloth related items throughout the world. It is the best market to buy home furnishings (bedsheets, curtains, towels etc.), personal clothing, and hosiery wear. Asia's largest cloth market (Arshed cloth market) is there.
Imtiaz Super Market (Misaq ul Mall), Sheikhupura - Faisalabad Rd, near Ashrafabad, largest mall in Faisalabad.
Hassan shopping area, Ripple Road.
Al Fatah Department Store, Center Point, Plaza Jaranwala Rd, Kohinoor City.
Lyallpur Galleria, E Canal Rd, Saeed Colony Nasar Ullah Khan Town.
The Grand Atrium Shopping Mall Faisalabad[dead link], West Canal Road، Canal Rd, Near Mansoorabad. Has Fun City arcade.
Metro Cash And Carry - Shopping point near Interchange Faisalabad.
Metro Cash & Carry, first foreign supermarket in Faisalabad.
Eat[edit]
Local specialities[edit]
Samosa - the samosas of Faisalabad are the best in Pakistan. A chock is dedicated to them, named Samosa chock. These samosas are different from any others because here you can get the chatani variety. The famous name Chacha Samosay Wala is also in the D - Ground Market. The best samosas are found at the corner shop of bawanabazar-gol.
Tea - One of the most famous tea spots in Faisalabad is located in Madan Pura. Sweet rusks make a nice accompaniment.
Dahi Bhale - these are delicious. The best Dahi Bhale is being prepared by a Thele Wala at Jinnah Coloney, near Chatri Wala Ground. Also sarwar k dahi bhally nisar colony Samnabad
Gol Gappe - these are really tasty. They are made with flour into a ball shape, and they are filled with black grams, onions, potatoes and other supplements. The most famous is a person who sells gole gappe on tehla in the start of the AminPur bazaar. A sour drink called "khatta" is served with them. A number of gol gappay carts can be found, lined outside Cricket Stadium. Their dahi bhala fillings and dippings are unique and not worth missing.
Biryani & Pulao - Biryani & pulao (special cooked rice) are also very popular. Jehangir's Murgh Pulao is the most popular in the country. It was first started by Mr Fatah about 60 years ago on the name of his brother Mr Jehangir, Tabish biryani.
Dal Chawal - No city can boast better Dal Chawal than Faisalabad. Its one of the favourite foods of locals, popular outlets are near Ghanta Ghar like Chamma Dal Chawal and Munna Dal Chawal.
Parathay - The ghanta ghar parathas are famous, and a large crowd comes to attend all night long. They come in different fillings as potatoes, mixed vegetable, chicken etc.
Restaurants[edit]
 Cock'N'Bull, ☏ +92-41-8738787. Fast food, Chinese, shawarmas, steaks, d-ground 
Drink[edit]
Rabri - this is the most favourite drink of the people of Faisalabad. It is made by mixing peanuts, almonds & many other dry fruits in milk and is delicious.
Sugar cane rusk - also delicious.
Limo pani - very tasty. It is made up with lemon juice and water.
Lassi - Lassi is the traditional Punjabi drink.  Lassi is available in all parts of the city easily.  It is made using yogurt. The price of one glass or a Piala of Lassi is about Rs.20
Bangali Milk Shop at Clock Tower chowk is the famous one for Lassi.

Nirala sweets also very famous in the city.
Sleep[edit]
Budget[edit]
 Hotel Grand, Susan Road, Block Z Madina Town, ☏ +92 302 7239595. US$28. 
 RizQ Hotel, P-143 , Near Station Chok Mosque، Rajbah Road (near railway station), ☏ +92 41 2616646. 
 Raj One Hotel, 2 chenab market susan road (near social security hospital), ☏ +92 34 5665 5555, shamsi2000pk@gmail.com. Check-in: noon, check-out: noon. Rs.5000. (updated Sep 2022)
Mid-range[edit]
 Hotel One Faisalabad, Block C People's Colony No 1, ☏ +92 341 2201111. Breakfast and pool. US$46. 
 Avari Xpress Hotel Faisalabad, 12C Jaranwala Rd, Kohinoor City (in Kohinoor City, the commercial hub), ☏ +92 41 8535302. US$49. 
Splurge[edit]
 Royalton Hotel, P-1270 West Canal Road, Abdullahpur, ☏ +92 41 8719900. One of the best places to stay in town. $68. 
31.42899273.0824171 Serena Faisalabad Hotel, Club Rd, Civil Lines, ☏ +92 41 111 133 133. The only five-star hotel in the city with three restaurants, breakfast, and outdoor pool. (updated Oct 2017)
Stay safe[edit]
In the case of an emergency, call police by 15 from any landline phone. If you are using a cellphone, dial 911 for police rescue.

Ambulance Access To get an ambulance in case of an emergency, dial 115 from any landline or cellphone.
Emergency rescue: dial 1122. The name of the  emergency service is "Rescue 1122".
Go next[edit]
Khurrianwala
Samundri







This city travel guide to Faisalabad is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Faisalabad&oldid=4867994"