
Funafuti is the main island and capital of the island nation of Tuvalu. It consists of a very thin strip of land, in a roughly oval shape, with the relatively massive Te Namo Lagoon in the center.
With 6,300 people it had 60% of the population of the country in 2017.


Get in[edit]
A valid passport and onward ticket is required for entry to Tuvalu.

By plane[edit]
-8.525179.1963891 Funafuti International Airport (with the amusing airport code of FUN  IATA). Fiji Airways flies from Suva in Fiji twice a week using an ATR 42/72 aircraft.   
Get around[edit]
There is one main road in Funafuti in addition to the runway, which is used for recreational purposes when landings are not scheduled. A motorbike is the only way to independently explore the island. Renting a bike costs about $10 per day.
The other islands are only accessible by boat.

See[edit]
The Funafuti Conservation Area on the western side of the Funafuti atoll has some of the best natural sights, and includes reefs, the gorgeous lagoon, channel, parts of the ocean and islands habitats. Its diversity in marine life makes it an excellent place for scuba diving or snorkelling. 
Traditional local culture remains very much alive, making the people of Tuvalu one of the nation's best assets. Traditional dancing is performed on special occasions, and the local "maneapa" (the town hall) is your best chances of experiencing one. 
The massive stationing of US troops in the Second World War left the island nation with a number of war time remains, including airstrips, bunkers and plane wrecks along the main island of Fongafale and near the village of Nanumea. The tiny island of Motulalo in Nukufetau has an airstrip too, as well as some plane wrecks. If you have any interest in postal stamps, the Philatelic Bureau on Funafuti is a must-see. The Tuvalu Women's Handicraft Centre at the airport is a good place to see and buy local crafts. If you have time however, try catching a boat to one of the outer islands and admire the local people's skills in making ornaments, fans, mats, baskets or woodcarvings.

Do[edit]
The national game is te ano (the ball). Two teams line up facing each other hitting a ball. The objective is to keep the ball in the air as long as possible. This is similar to volleyball.
Funafuti is host to the Tuvalu Games, an annual multi-sports event. It is open to all of the islands of Tuvalu to participate.

Buy[edit]
There is a handicraft centre at the airport terminal selling local handicrafts.
The Tuvalu Co-operative Society has 2 stores on Funafuti that sell a limited range of groceries.

Eat[edit]
There are many lodges that have restaurants that serve food and beverages. They serve many types of ethnic cuisines such as Chinese, Italian and Indian. Fish is abundant given the location.

Drink[edit]
Bars serve soft drinks and alcohol during meal times.

Sleep[edit]
Vaiaku Lagi Hotel is the only hotel in Funafuti and is operated by the Tuvalu government.  The hotel is located 50 metres from the airport terminal, facing the lagoon.  The hotel has 16 rooms of a basic standard, together with a restaurant serving breakfast, lunch & dinner. All rooms have air-conditioning and a telephone, although no hot water - only cold showers.
Guest houses. There are a number of privately run guesthouses of a very basic standard.
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
The other islands of Tuvalu can be reached by ship.





This city travel guide to Funafuti is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Funafuti&oldid=4810585"