
Gladstone is a town in Queensland on the coast between Bundaberg and Rockhampton.


Understand[edit]
Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
-23.869722151.2227781 Gladstone Airport (GLT  IATA) (is around 5km from the city centre). The airport has a cafe, and has about the only cappuccino you can find after about 2:30pm in Gladstone.   
Qantaslink has services connecting to Brisbane. There is also the daily all stops flight north to Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns. There is little competition on the routes into Gladstone, and prices can reflect this.
Jetstar flies to Rockhampton, a bit more than an hour away to the north. It is possible to pick up unlimited kilometre car hire in Rockhampton.
Car hire is available at the airport, Hertz, Avis, Europcar, Thrifty and Budget all offer services. Taxis are available outside the terminal.

By car[edit]
Gladstone is a diversion off the Bruce Highway A1 between Bundaberg and Rockhampton.  

By train[edit]
The railway from Brisbane to Rockhampton stops in central Gladstone. Tilt train and other services are available.

By bus[edit]
Get around[edit]
23°50′54″S 151°14′53″EMap of Gladstone (Queensland)
By car[edit]
Gladstone is easily navigable by car, and car hire is available at the airport and downtown.  

By bike[edit]
Gladstone has a variety of cycleways, and most roads are generally cycle friendly if you avoid the major highways. The topology of the city, with a hill running parallel to the city centre and the harbour, is worth considering if planning to cycle. If you follow the harbourside, it is going to be flatter.

See[edit]
Gladstone is an industrial centre. Is has attractions for people who like to see views over heavy industrial landscapes. It has gardens and a pretty marina district. It also is surrounded by areas of natural beauty. Gladstone harbour is the largest natural harbour in Queensland.

-23.8971151.26061 Tondoon Botanic Gardens, 672 Glenlyon Rd, ☏ +61 7 4971 4444. until 5:30 in winter, 6PM in summer. Expansive gardens, with a choice of many botanical walks, including wet and dry rainforest. Short walks take around 30 minutes. Clearings with picnic areas. Viewing platform, lakes. Kiosk/cafe over the man-made pond. A cycle lane and cycleway extend from the city the 8km south to the gardens. Don't forget insect repellent for the mosquitoes. free. 
-23.8361151.25022 Marina Parklands, 43 Bryan Jordan Dr, Callemondah. The corner of Gladstone Harbour where the marina is situated has been improved as a recreation area. There are gardens, playgounds, and a paved walking esplanade by the side of the water. There is also a coffee shop and a kiosk. This area has the ferries to the reef and Curtis Island, and the tourist information centre. free. 
-23.8348151.2543 Auckland Point (A short distance from the city centre, at the end of Auckland Road.). The view gives an overview of the layout of Gladstone, from the sweeping harbour and harbour islands, to the heavy industry surrounding it. You can see all the way from Queensland Alumina, across the harbour to the coal and other ports, to the marina, and out to the power station, mountains, and islands. There is a cafe at the top, with mains around $10. The cafe is good value, but it is open erratically. The locally produced guidebooks say it is open from breakfast to 5pm, but only really count on it being open for lunch. A waterfall falls down the cliff front at Auckland Point, but like so much of central Gladstone, it is human engineered. This waterfall is lit up with green and white lighting after dark, and is an interesting place to go for a walk at night. free. 
-23.8711151.28654 Queensland Alumina. Queensland Alumina is one of the largest Bauxite to Alumina processing refineries in the world. It unloads Bauxite from Weipa on a wharf adjacent to the refinery. The Alumina is sent by 10km conveyor south to the Boyne Smelter. There is a lookout on the road to the site, offering views over the refinery and an explanation of what goes on there. There are also free tours that run every Monday from the Tourist Information Centre at the marina. Bookings are essential, as tours only run with sufficient numbers. 
 Boyne Smelter. Free tours of the Boyne Aluminium Smelter run on Fridays at 9:30am, again leaving from the Visitor's Information Centre at the Marina. 
 Calliope River Historical Village. $2. 
 Gladstone Power Station. The largest power station in Queensland, with over six active coal-powered steam turbines. Has free tours which depart from the Gladstone Information Centre at 1pm on Mondays. 
Do[edit]
 TurtleWay Cycleway. Follows the Boyrne River. 18km of cycling between Tannum Sands and Boyne Island - 20km south of Gladstone 
 Swim. Tannum Sands, 20 minutes south of Gladstone town, offers year-round swimming and a pretty esplanade and beachfront park. 
 Great Barrier Reef Trips. 
Buy[edit]
Gladstone City Centre suffers from having had shopping traffic drawn away to larger suburban malls that are scattered around. The city centre is transforming itself into a restaurant and commercial precinct, while the shopping moves out into the suburbs with easier access and parking. Unfortunately, this also means the bland shopping mall with K-Mart, Target etc is prevalent, rather than a central shopping strip exposed to the elements.

 Calliope Village Markets. 
Eat[edit]
Restaurants tend to be expensive in Gladstone, with even pubs and clubs commonly selling their main meals well over $20.

 The Yacht Club (down the bottom of Goondoon St by the harbour). offers a good selection in a large dining room, and welcomes visitors. 
Drink[edit]
 Grand Hotel. Right in central Gladstone.  Historic hotel, but newly renovated and trendy feel.  Prices to match. 
Sleep[edit]
 Gladstone Camelot Hotel. Basic motel style, freshly painted and clean, but showing its age in the design. Elevated location gives views across Queensland Alumina to the water. $120 per double. 
-23.8464151.2561 Quest Gladstone (Quest Serviced Apartments), 39-43 Bramston Street (Corner Bramston Street and Glenlyon Street), ☏ +61 7 4970 0900. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. Quest Gladstone opened its doors for business on February 2, 2009. Quest Gladstone has apartments featuring full kitchen facilities, laundry, dining and lounge (excluding studios), and the added convenience of broadband internet access, Austar connection, LCD television, DVD player, and individually controlled reverse cycle air-conditioning. This makes it a good location for any business or leisure traveller. In-house guests can enjoy the use of the swimming pool and barbecue area along with limited off-street car parking. Being in the city, there is easy access to Gladstone's business precincts and industrial estates, with some of the city's finest restaurants located within walking distance. The property is a short stroll to Goondoon Street which is the main entertainment, shopping, recreational and leisure district of Gladstone. Accommodation at Quest Gladstone has been specifically designed to cater for guest stays from one night, to a week, to a month, and more, as well as having a conference and meeting room that can cater for up to 50 people, ideal for conferences, board meetings, training seasons, product displays and office parties. Full catering and tea-room facilities are available. From $180. 
-23.847151.25292 Como Apartments, 2 Railway St, ☏ 1300 684499 (local rate). Offers both short and long term, quality serviced accommodation. 
Go next[edit]


Routes through Gladstone




Rockhampton ← merges with A1 ←

 N  S 

→ merges with A1 → Gin Gin → Brisbane









This city travel guide to Gladstone is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Gladstone_(Queensland)&oldid=4866800"