
Glenrowan is a town on the Hume Highway in Victoria.  It is famous for being the location of the last stand of Australian folk hero and bushranger Ned Kelly and thus, is often colloquially called "Ned Kelly town".


Understand[edit]
Ned Kelly was an outlaw.  A bushranger, who robbed and stole.  After two years on the run, he was finally captured in Glenrowan.  The police has anticipated his arrival, and laid siege to Ned and his gang at the Glenrowan Inn. He emerged wearing homemade iron armour including a now iconic helmet, and while severely wounded, he was the sole survivor and was captured alive and later executed at Melbourne Gaol.
Posthumously, Ned Kelly has been elevated into an unlikely folk hero and cultural icon, portrayed by some as an Australian Robin Hood standing up against the corrupt and tyrannical police of the time.

Get in[edit]
If you are travelling the Hume, the Glenrowan is just a short diversion from the Highway, just 7km south of Wangaratta service station. 
No train service stops at Glenrowan, although the line and trains pass through the town. Coaches connect with the station at nearby Wangaratta, from where you can get train services to Albury and Sydney, or to Melbourne.

Get around[edit]
Walking. It's so small, that it takes more effort to take your car than walk. Even in hot 40° days.

See[edit]
The Big Ned Kelly
 Kellyland Glenrowan. This is the major attraction in Glenrowan, and has a reenactment of Ned Kelly's last stand. It goes through four rooms and sets, including one outside set. There are animated models in each set, and the show is triggered as your group pass into each set. It is interesting and well put together, but the technology shows its age. The price of admission will only give you 30 minutes of entertainment to progress through the four shows. You can't do it any slower or faster. Young children may be scared by some of the inside scenes, that get dark with loud noises. adults $32, children $23, group and family discounts available.. 
 The siege site. You can walk around the siege site, but you will need a good imagination, as there is not much left standing to see. 
 Ned Kelly Museum (Ned Kelly Museum & Homestead), 35 Gladstone St, ☏ +61 3 5766 2448. 9:30AM-4PM Daily. (updated Jun 2021)
-36.464146.22121 The Big Ned Kelly, cnr Gladstone and Kate Streets. 24/7. Just a huge statue of Ned Kelly. (updated Jun 2021)
Do[edit]
There's nothing to do in Glenrowan, only see.

Buy[edit]
 Gift Shop, 35 Gladstone St. 9:30AM-4PM Daily. (updated Jun 2021)


Eat[edit]
There are choice of cafes, restaurants and bakeries.

 Ned's Burger House, Gladstone Street, Glenrowan (Take the Glenrown exit from the hume Highway, and stop opposite the public amenities.). 9-9. Excellent Aussie and Greek food to be had, and a refreshing and easy stop. No chance of getting lost and Souvlaki as good as you can get anywhere. A post ski or fatigue beating stop. Under $10. 
Drink[edit]
There are no pubs in Glenrowan. You need to go to Wangaratta to have your portion of beer.

Sleep[edit]
There aren't anywhere where you can stay in Glenrowan. However, on the flipside, accommodation is plentiful in Wangaratta and it's only 7.7km away.

Connect[edit]
Telstra, Optus and Vodafone all work here.

Go next[edit]
Wangaratta is your next obvious spot, and also Victorian premier Dan Andrews' hometown.


Routes through Glenrowan




Albury-Wodonga ← Wangaratta ←

 N  S 

→ Benalla → Melbourne








This city travel guide to Glenrowan is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Glenrowan&oldid=4829428"