


Grand Case is in the northern coast of Saint Martin. The Gourmet Capital of the Caribbean. Grand Case is located on the French side of the island. From Grand Case you have a beautiful view of Anguilla, the neighboring island. The island is split between the French and the Dutch. The French side is more known for its cuisine while the Dutch side is known for its nightlife and entertainment.


Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
18.099914-63.0471971 L'Espérance Airport (Grand Case Airport SFG  IATA), ☏ +590 590 27 11 00. This airport on the French side and is the smaller airport of the island.   
Princess Juliana International Airport (SXM IATA). This airport is the largest airport on the island and is located on the Dutch side. You can get direct flights from most major airlines. Most people come to the island by the use of this airport. From there you can get your rental car and head on over to Grand Case.
Get around[edit]
You can get around the island by means of a taxi or a rental car. If you plan on staying just in Grand Case you really do not need a car almost everything is in walking distance or a taxi ride. If you plan on exploring on your own by the means of a rental car, it is suggested that you get a SUV rather than a standard Sedan. The roads in St Martin are very narrow and often include sharp turns and hills. Also keep in mind that there are hardly any signs in St Martin and if there are they are often hard to see. People will give you directions via landmarks rather than street signs since there are hardly any.

See[edit]
 Harmony Nights, All along Grand Case Blvd. Harmony Nights will run every Tuesday night from early January 2009 until 31 March. 
 Atelier des Tropismes Gallery, 107 Grand Case Blvd. Open everyday from 10AM — 1PM and to 5PM — 9PM. 
 Mary Star of the Sea Catholic Church, Grand Case Blvd. 
Do[edit]
 Watersports at Grand Case Beach Club, Le Petite Bay at the far end of Grand Case Bay. The activities include snorkeling at the Creole Rock located two minutes from the beach, single and double kayaking, paddle boats, floats, water skiing, and rides on the extreme chariot. A full service desk is on location where they can book you on any activity on the island. 
 [formerly dead link] Octopus Diving, 15 Grand Case Blvd. Octopus Diving holds the PADI International Resort and Retail Association status IRRA S-799210 and offers all PADI courses in both English and French. You can also take diving lessons as well as learning underwater photography. 
Don't just stay in Grand Case, get out and explore the island. There are many things to do on such a small island. Take a scenic tour around the island, it only takes about an hour to two hours to circle the whole entire island. Don't forget to make a shopping stop in Philipsburg where you can also visit the Zoo, known for its child-friendly activities.

Eat[edit]
Grand Case is famously known for it's delicious French Gourmet food. People come from all over the island to these restaurants that are located all along the Grand Case Boulevard. Late at it night it tends to be crowded and a lot of restaurants are closed on Mondays. Many of the restaurants offer you free shots of their homemade rum after you are done your meal or if you order dessert.

 [dead link] Sunset Cafe at Grand Case Beach Club, 97150 Saint Martin FWI. Sunset Cafe is a restaurant located inside the Grand Case Beach Club Resort. They offer Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner. You can order French style or go the American way. Nothing big or too small. You are seated on a covered deck patio on looking the waves and the beach facing the famous Creole Rock. The perfect place for a romantic evening. 
 Le Ti Coin Creole, Grand Case Boulevard Route de Petite Plage. This colorful and quaint restaurant is right down the road from the Grand Case Beach Resort. The chef Carl Phillips specializes in Creole cuisine with dishes such as conch, fresh red snapper, roasted or grilled, and curried goat. If you are looking for Caribbean flavor, this is the place to go! 
 Lolos, Grand Case Blvd. Lolos offer dining services outside and the food is local and right off of the grill. There is typically four to five Lolos to choose from. Most of them offer the same thing. It is the cheapest food on the whole boulevard. The service is excellent and the menu is large. The portions are very generous and definitely worth the price. If you are looking for delicious home cooked food with a relaxed atmosphere this is place to go. 
 [dead link] La California, Grand Case Blvd. La California offers French and American cuisine. The only offer Lunch and Dinner. This restaurant faces the ocean making it the perfect romantic spot. During your meal, they take a photo of you and print it out at the end to give to you as a souvenir. 
 [dead link] Il Nettuno, 70 Grand Case Blvd, ☏ +590 87 77 38. Il Nettuno offers Italian Cuisine rather than the typical French cuisine restaurants on the Boulevard. The dining overlooks the water and is perfect for sunset dining. 
 L'Hibiscus, Grand Case Blvd. Dinner is served from 6PM to 11PM every evening. Known for its fine wine list. 
 Auberge Gourmande, Grand Case Blvd. "..serves fine French cuisine in an intimate dining room in one of the oldest Créole houses on the island". 
 Bistrot Caraïbes, Grand Case Blvd. French-Caribbean cuisine. 
 [dead link] Blue Martini Bistro, Grand Case Blvd. 
 [formerly dead link] Le Cottage, Grand Case Blvd. French cuisine with one of the most extensive wine lists in the Caribbean. 
 [formerly dead link] L'Escapade, Grand Case Blvd. Fine French cuisine with Asian and Oriental accent. 
 G's Snacks, Grand Case Boulevard across from Restaurant de Soleil. "..serves up some fine local snacks, ice cream, and plenty of late night drinks. Look for entertainment on Tuesday and Saturday". 
 [dead link] La Marine, Grand Case Blvd. French/Fish. 
 Restaurant du Soliel, Grand Case Blvd. French/Creole 
 Spiga, 4 L'Esperance Road, ☏ +590 590 52-4783, reservations@spiga-sxm.com. Most visitors come to Grand Case expecting French and Caribbean cuisine, but one of the town's best dining options is a trattoria run by an Italian-born chef and his partner, the daughter of a longtime Saint Martin restaurateur. Spiga offers expertly prepared variations on traditional Italian dishes, including a selection of handmade pastas. 
 Le Tastevin, Grand Case Blvd. French 
 Zen It, 48 Boulevard de Grand-Case, ☏ +590294484. It's real Caribbean atmosphere with a twist of French style, Creole & International food, and live music on the beach. 
Drink[edit]
Many of the restaurants on the Grand Case Boulevard have a bar attached and most weekends there is a live band playing. There also are many beach bars such as Zen It that you can sit back and relax at.

 Calmos Cafe. 
 Friar's Bay Beach Café. 
 Kali's Beach Bar. 
 Zen It. 
Sleep[edit]
 Grand Case Beach Club, 97150 Saint Martin, French West Indies, toll-free: +800 344 3016. The Grand Case Beach Club is a beautiful and intimate resort located in the heart of Grand Case. It is known as the perfect place for watching sunsets. You can witness the "green flash" which is the little dot of green as the sun sinks into the sea. 
 [dead link] Flamboyant Beach Villas, 97150 St Martin, FWI, ☏ +590 590 87 50 98. 
 Hotel L'Esplanade, B.P. 5007 — Grand Case 97150 St Martin FWI. Check-in: Anytime after 4PM, check-out: Before Noon. 
18.099388-63.0635611 Le Petit Hotel, 248 Boulevard de Grand Case, 97150. 
 [dead link] La California Apartments. Apartments situated above the La California Restaurant. 
 Bleu Emeraude. 
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Grand Case is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.








Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Grand_Case&oldid=4102751"