
Grand Turk is one of the Turks and Caicos Islands and the site of the capital, Cockburn Town.


Get in[edit]
Grand Turk is one of several islands in the Turks and Caicos Islands. To travel to Grand Turk you would need to fly into the island of Providenciales (PLS IATA) Providenciales Airport. From Providenciales you would take a local flight to Grand Turk International Airport on Air Turks and Caicos [formerly dead link]  or Caicos Express Airways [dead link].

21.444444-71.1422221 JAGS McCartney International Airport (Grand Turk International Airport GDT  IATA).   
Many cruise ships (not more than two at a time) stop at the Carnival Cruise Terminal, toward the south end of the island, to provide guests a "sun and sand" day while transiting between Florida and the Caribbean.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
The Lighthouse - At this site, you will find the lighthouse keeper's residence, as well as the kerosene storage building, built of local limestone blocks. At night, the lighthouse was often the only guidepost mariners had to steer them away from the treacherous Northeast reef, which extends eastward far out to sea and was responsible for an untold number of shipwrecks.
Watch the sunset - There is nothing like a Grand Turk sunset. Watch for the green flash while sipping a cold drink. Locals will tell you it's not so elusive at all.
Spaceship landing - one of the American space capsules came back to Earth near Grand Turk.  At the cruise line terminal, there is a small celebration of that feat, with models of the ship and an astronaut.

Do[edit]
Scuba Diving - Grand Turk has one of the most lush wall systems in the entire world. Healthy corals, diverse marine life and visibility that exceeds 100 feet often calls divers from around the world. The wall is a 10 minute ride from the beach, where your dive shop will conveniently pick you up. You can also take a day trip to dive or snorkel at Salt Cay.
Visit the Carnival Cruise Terminal - Includes a tourism village packed with shops and restaurants, one of the largest pools in the Caribbean, and an 800-ft. stretch of beach. Jimmy Buffet's Margaritaville is a great place to stop in for a cocktail.
Party with the High Tide Band! Grand Turk's most famous party band, the High Tide, featuring long time Musician and Dive Master, Mitch Rolling. Dance the night away to classic party hits, Soca, and Island music. Did you know the band has a Saw Player? This is a must-see when on the island. Catch them Wednesday & Sunday at the Osprey Beach Hotel!
Spa Anani - Whether you’re here for an exceptional diving experience or you are a resident of the island, you are now able to relax, rejuvenate and pamper yourself with world class spa treatments. Facials, Massages, Body Treatments, Waxing, and Ear Candling are all available - Spa Ani [dead link] (649)-232-1503
Horseback Ride on the Beach - Go for a leisurely horseback ride along the beach while enjoying the view of the crystal clear Atlantic Ocean. The guides will then unsaddle your mounts and prepare them for a swim. Remount your horse, and enjoy the fun of riding a horse in the ocean.
4x4 Offroad Safari - Experience the natural history and cultural heritage of Grand Turk in "safari themed 4x4 F250's". Your tour will come to a stop near the town centre where your guide will escort you on a 15-minute leisurely walk down the quaint “Front Street” lined with turn of the century Bermudian style architecture.
Dune Buggy Adventures - Feeling adventurous? Climb behind the wheel of a tubular frame sand dune buggy. Head off down the narrow marl tracks that skirt the beach and rock coastline around the island to the south-east side of the island. Take a trek to the bluff were you can capture the beautiful view of Gibb’s Cay and a few other little uninhabited islands that are visible in the Atlantic Ocean.
Snorkel at Governor's Beach or Gibbs Cay - One of Grand Turk's nicest beaches is Governor's Beach. Experience white sand and crystal clear water nipping at your feet as you stroll along the mostly secluded beach. This is also one of the better snorkel spots on the island.
Gibbs Cay - Explore an uninhabited island and have a close encounter with stingrays on this exciting combination excursion.
Bicycle Tour - Cruise around Grand Turk by bicycle! Ride up and down Front Street, glide into town by the shore to explore the many facets of Cockburn Town. See the many different styles of island homes, some more than a century old.
Rent a Car or Scooter - See the Island! Taking your own unguided tour can be quite adventurous! Head over to the North for some breathtaking views of the entire island, visit the North Creek, and stop by the Crabtree Corner Community Park.
Turks & Caicos National Museum - Learn about the cultural history of the islands, the discovery and the impact of early European settlement, natural and political history, and the role played in 20th century space exploration.
Stroll through Cockburn Town - A leisurely stroll through Cockburn town will reveal the history of the island. Find the cannons and you will discover the first landfall of Christopher Columbus, dated October 12, 1492.

Buy[edit]
At the Carnival Cruise Terminal, you'll find decent prices on a modest selection of duty-free goods by Dufry (e.g., liquors, candies, luxury leather goods), plus stores and kiosks offering items ranging from jewelry and original art to souvenirs.  Duty-free purchases may require photo identification as a citizen of other than the Turks and Caicos.

Eat[edit]
Birdcage Bar and Restaurant at  Osprey Beach Hotel
Lunch and dinner poolside dining. BBQ served twice weekly. Live entertainment by Mitch and The High Tide Band.
Phone: 649-946-2260
At the Carnival Cruise Terminal, you'll find what is reported to be the largest Margaritaville, with a bar and extensive midday menu. It can be very crowded with two ships docked.

Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Osprey Beach Hotel, ☏ +1 649-946-2666, fax: +1 649-946-2817. 27 beachfront rooms. 
 Bohio Dive Resort (Turks and Caicos Resort), ☏ +1 649 946 2135. Twelve standard rooms and four deluxe suites. 
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Grand Turk is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Grand_Turk&oldid=4849583"