

Carnaval in Guaranda
Guaranda is the provincial capital of the province of Bolivar in Ecuador.


Understand[edit]
Located in the heart of the country, quaint Guaranda is the smallest provincial capital in the highlands. Its pleasant climate (22 to 25 degrees Celsius in the tropical regions) make it very popular with visitors, who are also attracted the area’s cool paramo. The Carnaval festivities of the area have gained fame throughout Ecuador.
Surrounded by the peaks of San Jacinto, Loma de Guaranda, San Bartolo, Cruzloma, Tililac, Talalac, and el Mirador, Guaranda is known as the City of the Seven Hills. At 2650m, this highland city is the smallest provincial capital in Ecuador. The Carnival festivities are very traditional and last for several days. Visitors are offered chicha (a local, maize-based alcoholic drink) and the popular firewater known as Pájaro Azul (Blue bird) which help them get into the spirit of the festivities.

Get in[edit]
By Bus: The bus station is located towards Riobamba and Babahoyo at Eliza Mariño Carvajal. Bus service to: Guayaquil, 4 1/2 hours, ticket value around US$2.50. To Quito, 3 different cooperatives every few minutes, 4 to 5 hours, ticket value around US$2.50. To Riobamba, 2 hours, ticket value around US$1.60. To Ambato, 2 hours, ticket value around US$1.60. There are also daily buses from San Luis de Pambil.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
Over shadowing the whole town 3 km in the distance is the impressive 5 meter high sculptured statue of the El Indio Guaranga in the northwest, who sits perched on a main hill opposite. From here a magnificent view of the area may be enjoyed along with the snow crested peaks of Chimborazo Volcano. Take a taxi for around $1 or enjoy a hike, the statue is next to a Cultural center and also has a history museum in addition to the ethnographic history region by region.
The main market days are always colorful with the locals fully clothed in their typical dress and are open on Fridays and Saturdays (the main one) on Plaza 15 de Mayo while the best days for strolling the town and soaking up its atmosphere of old Colonial bygone days is best done around these days when it is less hectic.
Parque El Libertador is worth strolling around in and is frequented by many local residents in the evening from 6-9pm. In the center is a statue of Simón Bolivar that the inhabitants have informed us has had nestled under its right armpit a bees nest for many years. The park is surrounded by colonial houses and municipal buildings with panoramic views from the towers and a nice courtyard. On 7 de Mayo and Olmedo, there is an anthropology museum with pre-Inca at the Escuela de Educación de la Cultura Andina. Then there is Plaza Roja Guaranda, the other main city venue surrounded by restaurants and shops.
There are also some interesting paintings by local artists in Salón de la Ciudad. Opposite the park is a Cathedral constructed in stone surrounds and inside has an impressive marble altar complete with stained glass windows and wooden ceiling.
Two kilometers up from the statue Guarango is El Troje on the road to Salinas de Guaranda, a chance to see another set of nature’s wonders. Here you can walk 2 hours along a canyon to view a splendid 8 m high waterfall called El Infiernillo.
Carnival time is teeming with visitors from the whole province as well as neighboring ones also and has a dazzling combination of parades, dancers, strolling poets and masked partiers who roam the streets at random. A group of local musicians also meanders in and out of various houses through the day often receiving alcoholic beverages or the locals drink called Pajaro Azul (Blue Bird) which is a twist on the national drink aguardiente and mixed with local herbs.
The carnival is actually opened by a large landowner who is warmly referred to as Taita Carnaval (Father Carnival) who finances the party himself and officially opens the festival upon entering the town.
Dating back centuries, the Guaranda Fair is a well known local celebration during which locals parade through 15 de Mayo Plaza on mules and on horseback, dressed up in gold ponchos, black hats, and masks.

San Miguel, the Guardias Caves (10 minutes from town) and the
Virgin of Lourdes Grotto (20 minutes from town)
Cruz Loma Hill offers a panoramic view of the entire city of Guaranda. The town is also home to a monument to the Indio Guaranga as well as a small museum containing the independence arms, historical documents, archaeological remains, and centuries-old artwork.
Lake Cochas is an artificial lake located 10 km from Guaranda. It is a popular destination where visitors can go for a boat ride, admire the beautiful gardens and surrounding landscape, and try some local delicacies.
Do[edit]
Carnaval: The Carnival in Guaranda is celebrated as in every other part of the country. But, additionally this town celebrates this holiday with festivities; masks, parades, guitars, poetry and dances all over the place. Considered one of the best carnivals of Ecuador.
Taita Carnaval (Father Carnival), is a grand celebration opening in which the sponsor of the party makes his grand entrance into town. After this opening, the party starts. Celebrations last for about 8 days.
Note: Carnaval is celebrated with water throwing in the whole country (except in Ambato).

Buy[edit]
Salinerito: Address: General Enríquez, Plaza Roja.
Artesanías de PHD: Woolens, crafts & decorations. Address: General Enríquez, Plaza Roja.
 [dead link] Artesanias de Alpaca, Tibospungo y Los Incas, Salinas-Guaranda, ☏ +593 32210069. Crafts made by hand with Alpaca wool 
Eat[edit]
Fritada (fried pork), mashed plaintains (known as bollos), Salty hornado (roasted pork), and empanadas (pastries filled with meat and cheese) are traditional fare in Guaranda.

Restaurants[edit]
 La Colina, Located at Hotel La Colina. International food. 
 Pizza Buon Giorno, Av. Circunvalación 2 blocks from Plaza Roja. Pizza and salads. 
Cafeterias[edit]
 Juad's Pastelería, Convención de 1884 and Azuay, ☏ +593 98 470 9860. 
 Cafe Suyana, Plaza Central, Salinas, ☏ +593 98 920 9100, info@tomabelas.com. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Hotel La Colina, Avenida Guayquil 117 (Set on a hill north of the entrance coming from Ambato), ☏ +593 3-298-1954. Serves breakfast, has wifi and pool, kind of rancheria-style with views of Guaranda. (updated Dec 2020)
 Hotel Bolivar, Sucre 704 between Olmedo y Rocafuerte, ☏ +593 3-298-0547. Wifi, cable TV, restaurant. only $20 for a single. (updated Dec 2020)
 San Rafael Hotel & Spa, 9 de Abril, Calle Azuay 607 y, ☏ +593 3 255 3000. Spacious room accommodations, and you can have a cafecito in the morning. (updated Dec 2020)
 Gran Hotel Palacio Real, Via Ambato, Calle 7 de Mayo 338, ☏ +593 98 826 4353. This one is very cosmopolitan-looking sitting on the corner with carnival regalia and flags. Wifi, and breakfast is available for about $3. (updated Dec 2020)
 Complejo Turistico La Rueda, Av. Caracas y Roberto Arregui, ☏ +593 3-255-2241. This is an interesting one because it incorporates an enclosed hot spring pool, plus has a sauna, massage parlor, freezing cold pool, and restaurant. Try a hydromassage during your stay. (updated Dec 2020)
Connect[edit]
Post Office: Address: Azuay and Pichincha.
Go next[edit]
Nearby Villages
San José de Chimbo (20 km from Guaranda) is famous for its skilled craftsmen who handcraft guitars as well as fireworks.
Chimbo has a museum dedicated to the story of Christ's shroud and the locals worship the El Guayco Virgin.
Zumbi Hill A few kilometers from Chimbo stands the pyramid-shaped Cerro Zumbi. It’s considered to have been an ancient place of worship to the Gods Cuiche and Katekil.
Catequilla Hill These hot springs are a few minutes from Chimbo and their medicinal properties attract visitors from all over.
Near Chillanes (67 km from Guaranda) you can visit the archaeological remains of the Chillanes tribe.
Salinas de Guaranda self sufficient village





This city travel guide to Guaranda is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Guaranda&oldid=4726046"