
Hansville is a town on the Kitsap Peninsula in the Puget Sound region of Washington state.
Hansville is on the northern tip of the Kitsap Peninsula affording sweeping views of Admiralty Inlet, Whidbey Island, and Puget Sound.
This picturesque rural community enjoys some of the areas lowest rainfall totals, making it an ideal outdoor recreation site.


Understand[edit]
Point no Point lighthouse was the first lighthouse on Puget Sound
Construction of the Point no Point lighthouse began in April 1879 making it the oldest lighthouse on Puget Sound. The first light used was a common kerosene lamp. As 1879 drew to a close, the lens and a glass for the lantern had not arrived, but authorities were determined to have the lighthouse open that year so the first lighthouse keeper, J.S. Maggs, a Seattle dentist, hung a canvas over the south window openings to break the wind and keep the kerosene lamp from blowing out.

Get in[edit]
Map of Hansville (Washington)
By car[edit]
There are many ways to get to the Hansville highway but only two ways to get to Hansville. Come down the Hansville Highway from Highway 104 or come by boat to one of the many communities that makes up the Greater Hansville area.
Come to Eglon, Cliffside, Shorewood, Driftwood Key, Skunk Bay, Norweigan Point,or to a private dock on the Twin Spits side of the canal.

By boat[edit]
 Twin Spits Marina, Vista Key Dr NE. 
 Driftwood Keys, 37608 Vista Key Dr NE, ☏ +1 360-638-2077. Open moorage available for 2 to 3 days at a time. With a locked gate and ample tow parking 
47.911408-122.5324041 Point No Point Water Access (N on SR3 from Bremerton, then NE on SR307 to Hansville Rd., go 8 miles N on Hansville to PT no Pt rd., east 1 mile to property, approx 1/4 mile west of Pt no Pt Light station). State-owned water-access site with on-site camping provided by private concessionaire. 
Get around[edit]
By bus[edit]
 Kitsap Transit, ☏ +1 360-479-6962, toll-free: +1-800-501-7433, kitsapride@kitsaptransit.com. Kitsap Transit offers transit services throughout the area including pickup from all ferry terminals and connects with Mason Transit (Mason County), Pierce Transit (Pierce County), and Jefferson Transit (Jefferson County) offering connections outside of the area. Full fare $2; it is part of the regional ORCA network system. 
See[edit]
 [formerly dead link] Buck Lake County Park, 6959 NE Buck Lake Rd. This 20-acre park includes lake access, beach, swimming area, picnic areas, playground, ball field, basketball court, volleyball court, picnic shelter and restrooms. Native garden in progress. Also has access to Hansville Greenway Wildlife Corridor. 
47.939444-122.61251 Foulweather Bluff (proceed west from Hansville on Twin Spits Road for 2.8 miles; the trail head is on the left side of the road, and there is room for parking on the shoulder), ☏ +1 206-343-4344. Daily, daylight hours. This 110-acre natural preserve with 3800 feet of Puget Sound shoreline is located a few miles north of Hansville at the very northern tip of the Kitsap Peninsula and is owned by the Nature Conservancy but is open to the public. It was purchased by the conservancy because of its valuable combination of wetlands, forests and tidelands and is considered one of the most valuable wildlife havens on the Kitsap Peninsula. No pets.   (updated Jun 2018)
 [formerly dead link] Hansville Greenway Wildlife Corridor (take Hwy.104 to Hansville Road; turn left onto Hansville Road, then drive 7.5 miles before turning left onto Buck Lake Road; entrance to park is on the right-hand side). 265 acres of walking and equestrian trails, wetland viewpoints. 
47.918889-122.5483332 Norwegian Point Park (from State Route 104 or Miller Bay Road, go north on Hansville Road until you reach the park on the water's edge in Hansville (by the grocery store)). 3-acre undeveloped saltwater access.   
47.9123-122.52673 Point No Point Lighthouse and Park, 9009 Point No Point Rd NE. Lighthouse hours Apr-Sep: Sa Su noon-4PM. This 60-acre undeveloped saltwater access site includes the historic lighthouse, and the nearby light keepers' housing which is now available as a vacation rental. Tours of the historic duplex at Pont No Point Lighthouse and Park are offered Apr-Sep: Sa at 1PM and 3PM. Docents will be on hand at the lighthouse to share information and history with visitors as well.   
47.91925-122.569814 Skunk Bay Lighthouse, Twin Spits Rd NE (at the northern tip of the Kitsap Peninsula near Hansville.), ☏ +1 360-638-2917. Northern Kitsap's other less famous lighthouse was built in 1965 only for personal use, but when its creator left the signal light on one night the coastguard intervened and eventually it passed inspection and became an official navigation aide. In 1971, 20 people organized as the Skunk Bay Lighthouse Association bought it and continue to maintain it. Public access to the site is not permitted but it can be appreciated from the water.  
Do[edit]
There is an abundance of wildlife viewing and bird watching. Fishermen enjoy catching salmon from the beach while taking in the views and watching the parade of marine traffic.

Birdwatching[edit]
the rare sighting of a Red Necked Phalaropes can sometimes be seen migrating through the area.
The Kitsap Audubon Society has been meeting since 1972 and has a broad coalition of birders tracking and sharing sightings since then.  They also maintain an active website with updates of the latest sightings, suggestions on areas for birders and even a regular newsletter.  They also developed a checklist of birds likely to be seen birds in the area.
The state Audubon society developed 'The Great Audubon Birding Trail' which includes key migration flyways.  Flyways are major north-south routes of travel for migratory birds and likely areas to see birds along the route extending from Alaska to Patagonia. Point No Point County Park near Hansville at Kitsap County's northern tip is particularly important for birds migrating the Pacific Flyway. The Audubon Society designated it an Important Bird Area (IBA), and it is considered one of the most important migratory areas in the state.

Sea kayaking[edit]
Sea kayaking can be a rewarding way to explore the Kitsap Peninsulas nearly 400 miles (640 km) of coastline allowing the paddler a closer and slower look at their surroundings Hansville is a great launching place being between the Hood Canal and the main channels of Puget Sound.  Thick forests of majestic pine and deciduous trees and hundreds of creeks and estuaries dot the coastline. Or just explore Kitsaps many harbor towns like Hansville that cater to kayakers with shops and restaurants accessible from the water. Harbor Seals, Otters, Bald Eagles and Blue Herons are common sites while the occasional viewing of an Orca or Grey Whale is not out of the question.

Kayak trails[edit]
Organized trails offer overnight camping options and maps of appropriate lengths and scenic travel destinations.

 Cascadia Marine Trail. This inland sea trail is a National Recreation Trail and designated one of only 16 National Millennium Trails. Suitable for day or multi-day trips, the Cascadia Marine Trail has over 50 campsites to visit. People can boat to the campsites from many public and private launch sites or shoreline trailheads including nearby Hood Canal. 
 Kitsap Peninsula Water Trails. The National Parks Service named the this 'Trail of the Month' in the entire USA for December 2012. PDF copies of the water trails map are available and a launch near Hansville is the northern most point on the trail. 
Beach combing[edit]
beach glass found on Kitsap beach
Unlike many rocky areas around Puget Sound, Hansville does offer sandy beaches at the park surrounding the lighthouse. Oysters, clams and moon snails are common sites and this is an excellent area just to watch boat traffic on Puget Sound.
Sea shells and driftwood are considered part of the natural environment and should not be removed.  Decomposing shells provide nutrients to other sea animals and driftwood helps control beach erosion. However the often rocky and wild shores are havens for creating and revealing beach glass and anything artificial found is fair game for removal.  Be respectful of private property and gentle with sea creatures. Keep a wide distance away from nesting birds, seals and other shore animals and always put back anything removed from the shoreline.

Shellfishing[edit]
Shellfish are prized resources of the Puget Sound, the cool, clean waters provide some of the finest shellfish habitat in the world. Hansville's wild coastline is a popular place for individuals to find these elusive and sought after shellfish.  Maps of public shellfishing areas and health warnings and updates can be found online at the States Fish and Wildlife website, as with all fishing in Puget Sound permits are required and can be purchased online or in some sporting goods stores.

Public clam and oyster beaches[edit]
 Foulweather Bluff. Open year-round for clam- and oyster-fishing, however it is boat access only. There is no upland access. The beach is about 0.65 miles (1 km) from boundary to boundary. The boundaries are not marked. The best landmark for this beach is the northeastern point of Foulweather Bluff. The northeastern point is about 270 yards north of the eastern boundary and 970 yards east of the western boundary. It is recommended that harvesters stay well within these boundaries to avoid trespassing. Approximate GPS coordinates of the northeastern point of Foulweather Bluff are: 47.940Âº N, 122.604Âº W. 
Buy[edit]
 Hansville Grocery, 7532 Northeast Twin Spits Rd, ☏ +1 360 638-2303. A neighborhood grocery store with sandwiches, burgers and ice cream.  A great place to restock on your trip or grab some things for a picnic on one of the local beaches. 
Eat[edit]
 The Hansgrill,, 7532 NE Twin Spits Rd, ☏ +1 360-638-2303. Attached to Hansville Grocery, this small restaurant offers simple but tasty sit-down meals. Beer and wine are available. Outdoor seating when weather permits. 
 The Point Casino, 7989 NE Salish Ln, Kingston, ☏ +1 360-297-0070. This casino also has a restaurant and bars, and is between Hansville and Kingston. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Point No Point Lighthouse Vacation Rental, ☏ +1 415 362-7255, jeff@uslhs.org. Experience the century-old history this unique property has to offer by spending the night in the original light keepers housing which is preserved and managed by United States Lighthouse Society. $215 per night + tax, 2 nights minimum on weekends. 
 Milky Way Farm Guest House, 37103 Hansville Rd, ☏ +1 360-638-1811, info@milkywayfarmguesthouse.com. 4-bedroom 2-bath country house fully furnished; sleeps 10 - 15, 3 baths; Well-stocked kitchen, Wrap-around porch Territorial views with pond and creek, farmland and orchards; laundry facilities, propane bbq, Direct TV, Wi-Fi and phone. $150-400 per night; two-night minimum. 
Go next[edit]
By car[edit]
Hansville is at the northern tip of the Kitsap Peninsula so there is nowhere to go but south to Kingston which has a large ferry terminal connecting to the mainland  The historic town of Port Gamble is also near and worth a stop to see their historic buildings if your on your way to the Olympic Peninsula via Hood Canal Bridge.

By boat[edit]
Hansville is a last stop on the Kitsap Peninsula before heading on to the San Juan Islands via the Admiralty Inlet or also offers good access to the Hood Canal.  If you are following the Kitsap Peninsula Water Trails Hansville is also close to the Port Gamble to Foulweather Bluff leg of the trip.






This city travel guide to Hansville is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Hansville_(Washington)&oldid=4301485"