
Homewood is a town and ski resort located on the Western Shore of Lake Tahoe in the Sierra Nevada mountains of northern California.


Get in[edit]
39°5′13″N 120°9′37″WMap of Homewood (California)
Homewood is easily reached by car from Tahoe City and Truckee by driving south along the Truckee River and then the west shore of the Lake on State Route 89. From further a field it can be reached from both Reno and the San Francisco Bay Area along interstate 80, and then by following State Route 89 South.

Get around[edit]
Given the small size of Homewood one can get around on foot, however given the limited services in the town itself one would want a rental car to be able to properly enjoy all of the beauty and activities that Lake Tahoe has to offer.  Not only that but it helps for the more mundane things like grocery shopping.

See[edit]
The amazing views of the lake from the resort and most notably the Chair ride down the Madden Lift.

Do[edit]
39.0827-120.1751 Homewood Mountain Resort, West Lake Boulevard, Highway 890, ☏ +1 530 525-2900. Homewood is a large resort covering two mountains with variable terrain and many different ski runs, located directly on the lake and producing some of the best views of the lake, 6 miles south of Tahoe City. Typically, Homewood is the least busy resort, has cheaper tickets than most (including a senior season pass). The smaller crowds mean better skiing longer after storms, and more relaxed attitude than some Tahoe areas. Its main downside is that it has no detachable high speed chairlifts, although they have replaced their oldest and slowest main double chair with a modern triple chair. Homewood is a year round resort with events for all seasons:   
Winter - The primary focus is the ski area its self with its uncrowded slopes and wide variety of terrain.
Spring - The focus remains the Ski area through its general closing on Easter weekend, from here on things are relatively quiet until the boating season starts up in May.
Summer - During the Summer months the Ski area hosts a number of concerts and music festivals, the town also becomes the focus of many others activities including: Hiking, swimming, Boating (with its hub being Obexor's Marina), and 4wheeling with the end of the fabled Rubicon Trail near by.
Fall - with the traditional end of summer on Labour day weekend the Fall season commences, much like spring it is caught between the two high seasons and is a wonderful time to experience the resort in a time of quiet transition.
Buy[edit]
A lift Ticket! year round the views alone are worth it, they are available from the lodge, visible of state route 89.
Homewood logo gear can be purchased at the ski shop located next door to the North Day lodge.
Eat[edit]
There are a variety of quality eating establishments in Homewood covering the full pricing spectrum some option are below:

Splurge[edit]
 Sunnyside Resort, ☏ +1 530-583-7200. Old-Tahoe charm with casual elegance on the Lake. Outside dining and Sunday Brunch in the summer. Dinner entrées $20-$30 
 Swiss Lakewood, ☏ +1 530-525-5211. Classic French cuisine with a Swiss touch. One of Tahoe's finest and oldest restaurants. Extensive wine list. Summer lunch served in the outdoor gazebo garden. Dinner entrées $15-$28 
Mid-Price[edit]
 Black Bear Tavern, ☏ +1 530-583-8626. Down home dinner with a New England accent.  Hearty portions, nightly specials. Three fireplaces. Cozy atmosphere. 2 1/2 miles south of Tahoe City. Dinner entrées $12-$22 
 Tahoe House. This is a small deli, nice restaurant and sundry shop all rolled into one; a great place to pick up sandwiches for lunch, gourmet items for your kitchen, and an expensive bit to eat at dinner. 
Budget[edit]
 Firesign Cafe, ☏ +1 530-583-0871. 7AM 'til 3PM, 7 days a week. Voted #1 for best breakfast on the West shore. Outside dining, food to go. Sunnyside. No Dinner service. 
Drink[edit]
There are no dedicated bars in Homewood but nearly all of the restaurants have full bars, among the best are those that the Swiss Lakewood and Sunnyside the latter having views of the Lake.

Sleep[edit]
As is the case with much of the Lake Tahoe Basin winter and summer home rentals are the primary form of accommodation, however there are two Hotel type establishments in Homewood called the Swiss Lakewood and the Tahoma Lodge both of which offers condo rentals.

Go next[edit]
There are several parks along the shore and nearby, including Bliss State Park and Emerald Bay State Park.
There are many trail in the nearby Desolation Wilderness including Mount Tallac Trail.



Routes through Homewood




Truckee ← Tahoe City ←

 N  S 

→ South Lake Tahoe → Jct N  S









This city travel guide to Homewood is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Homewood_(California)&oldid=3834102"