
Hungerford is a town in southwestern Queensland.  It is very much on the trail of Henry Lawson, who wrote about the town. Only one pub remains, the Royal Mail, which also is a bit of a general store, as long as you are not too fussy about what produce you may wish to buy on a particular day.


Get in[edit]
There is no commercial air service to Hungerford.  There is an airstrip available for charter landings.

The view around the Royal Mail Hotel in Hungerford
It is around 250 km of gravel road from Bourke, or 130 km of gravel road from Eulo, or 170 km of quality gravel road from Thargomindah.  All roads are generally suitable for 2-wheel drive vehicles.  Hungerford can be easily cut off from the north when the Paroo River floods.  This happens when it rains further north, even if it is dry in Hungerford.

Get around[edit]
28°59′45″S 144°24′29″EMap of Hungerford (Queensland)
If you made it to Hungerford you have some form of motorised transport.  You can walk around town, but you will need the car to get out to the Paroo River, or the surrounding area.

See[edit]
 The Paroo River. The Paroo River is just up the road. 
 The Dingo Fence. The fence runs along the NSW border, just to the south of the main street. The dingos are supposedly on the Hungerford (Queensland side) of the fence, and the sheep on the southern (NSW) side, or so the theory goes. 
 The stars. The stars shine brighter at night in Hungerford than anywhere else 
Do[edit]
 Tennis. Why does Hungerford have a really nice tennis court? Who knows. 
 Walk to NSW. It's about 50 m south from the hotel. Open the gate, and walk on through. 
Buy, eat, drink and sleep[edit]
-28.9976144.40931 The Royal Mail Hotel, 9 Archernar St, ☏ +61 7 4655 4093. This small pub is over 100 years old. But don't think sandstone grandeur, think corrugated iron and timber. Accommodation is comfortable, air-conditioning in two of the three rooms. There is also a bunkhouse out the back. Toilets and showers out the back of the pub. Fuel is available, but call ahead. Some supplies are available from the general store. Owners are very friendly, have a few drinks and dinner, but don't keep them up too late! 

Connect[edit]
The hotel offers Internet access in exchange for a donation to the Royal Flying Doctor Service. There is a payphone and mobile reception on the Telstra 4G network.

Go next[edit]
The Currawinya National Park is just up the road.  Further afield to Bourke, Eulo or Thargomindah.






This city travel guide to Hungerford is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Hungerford_(Queensland)&oldid=4690140"