
Ilawe-Ekiti also called Ilawe is a town in Ekiti State. Nigeria. It is one of the largest towns in Ekiti State, Nigeria. In fact, in the 1995 population census conducted in Nigeria, Ilawe-Ekiti recorded a population of over 179,000.


Districts[edit]
Ilawe-Ekiti is divided into eight different districts or quarters. There are:

Okebedo
Okeemo
Irorin
Aaye
Okepa
Okeloye
Iro
Adin
Understand[edit]
With an estimated population of over 200,000, Ilawe-Ekiti ranks as one of the top and popular cities in Ekiti State.

Get in[edit]
The easiest way to get into Ilawe-Ekiti is first to get on a plane from any state in Nigeria and take a flight to Akure Airport, Akure, then from Akure, you can easily pick up a bus traveling to Ilawe-Ekiti at about N1,000 only.

 Akure Airport (LOS IATA), 772X+9VM, 340284, Obale. You can fly in from any state in Nigeria. Akure Airport was commissioned on 8th February 1986 as a Domestic Airport; It is located at Obale Community, East of Akure, and a distance of 12km from the city center. The nearest towns to the Airport are Owode, Eneowo, and Araromi communities. 
Another way to get into Ilawe-Ekiti from any state is by getting to the garage and boarding a bus that is traveling to Ilawe-Ekiti, the amount usually ranges from place to place. A tourist traveling from Lagos to Ilawe-Ekiti can get to Oshodi Park or the Ojota popular park to pick a bus and the price range from Lagos to Ilawe-Ekiti is about N3,500 - N4,500 only.

Get around[edit]
Getting around in Ilawe-Ekiti is less of a big deal, there are popular cabs around to move one around Ilawe-Ekiti, the cabs are relatively cheap, a tourist could pay as low as N50 and as high as N200 depending on how far the journey is.

See[edit]
 Corpus christi college ilawe, Ado Ekiti - Ilawe - Ilara Mokin Rd, 361102, Ilawe Ekiti. Corpus christi college ilawe-ekiti is a big and notable school in Ilawe-Ekiti, any tourist to Ilawe-Ekiti should see the school. 
Do[edit]
Ilawe-Ekiti might seem like a boring place for tourists at first but that is not exactly the case, as there are still some very interesting things to do in Ilawe-Ekiti.

Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti: Palace to the king, popularly called 'Oba' of Ilawe-Ekiti. The palace is a great place to visit, I'm very sure a tourist would appreciate visiting that place.
Buy[edit]
Unless you are in a supermarket or restaurant/bar with fixed prices, you will be expected to negotiate the price you pay for an item down to the lowest the vendor would sell.
Of course, there are places to buy things in Ilawe-Ekiti and the popular market is also a very nice spot, hawkers in Ilawe-Ekiti usually camp at a spot selling anything from fresh food items like tomatoes, fish, vegetables, potatoes, meat and whatever foodstuff you can think of, even ewedu, efo, ila amongst other special Yoruba dishes.

Eat[edit]
There are various mama put available in Ilawe-Ekiti, most especially local dishes.
Dishes such as:
Efo Riro
Egusi
Gbegiri
Amala
Semo
Iyan
Ewedu
Ila (Okra)
and many other Yoruba dishes are readily available.
Rice
Beans
Spaghetti
and others are not also left out.

Drink[edit]
As you should expect, Ilawe Ekiti has some bars where you could drink, and you just need to pick the one you need, go in, and have a very good drink.

Sleep[edit]
Ilawe-Ekiti has some great hotels and many more are being built. There are many 4 star hotels for the price of a 3-star hotel.

 Delight Hotel and Suites, Ado - Ilawe Road, 360211, Ado Ekiti, ☏ +234 815 503 0636. A 4-star hotel in Ilawe-Ekiti with very nice facilities like good pool, free parking, great bar and restaurant amongst others. ₦19,500. 
 Lovely Hotel, 360101, Ilawe-Ekiti. A 2-star hotel with good facilities and relatively affordable. ₦6,500. 

Connect[edit]
The networks in certain parts of Nigeria can be very erratic at times. On certain days you cannot make a phone call at all or you will not be able to recharge your phone for most of the day making business very difficult at times. But it's occasional and that is the reason if you want to stay for a long term, make sure that you have at least two phones or a dual SIM phone.

Go next[edit]
Ikeja
Oredo
Ikorodu
Isolo
Magodo





This city travel guide to Ilawe-Ekiti is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ilawe-Ekiti&oldid=4423721"