
Iligan is a city in the northeastern coast of Northern Mindanao, surrounded by the towns of Baloi and Linamon of Lanao del Norte to the south, the town of Lugait in Misamis Oriental to the north, and the provinces of Lanao del Sur and Bukidnon to the east and Iligan Bay to the west.


Understand[edit]
8°13′41″N 124°14′18″EMap of Iligan
The first peoples or what is now Iligan are the indigenous Higaonon people; the name Iligan derives from ilihan or iliyan, the word for "fortress" in the Higaonon language. Some say its name was derived from the seasonal surge and outflow of its two major rivers. Local folks call this alluvial phenomenon "ilig". This is the reason why Iliganons consider the monsoon season a blessing because the soil along the riverbanks are fertilized. Its Cebuano-speaking inhabitants likes to believe that Iligan means "where good fortune gravitates".
Iligan is endowed with natural beauty. Not only is it situated on a limestone-rich area, it is also way out of the typhoon belt, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Iligan is also ringed by more than 20 waterfalls (earning the moniker "City of Majestic Waterfalls") and more than a dozen springs distributed evenly within a 30-km radius of the city.
Its rivers and tributaries practically caused Iligan to move forward economically and make it the industrial center of Mindanao today.
Besides its rich natural resources, it is also the home of nationally acclaimed artists, poets, cultural workers and writers.
Iligan is predominantly Christian (93.61%). Iliganons are the mixture of the Muslim and Cebuano population with a minority of Tagalog and some other cultural minorities and immigrants from other places.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
8.130525124.2148941 Maria Cristina Airport (Iligan Airport, IGN  IATA), Iligan-Marawi Road, Balo-i. Now closed to commercial service since the opening of Laguindingan Airport.   (updated Jul 2019)
The nearest airport to Iligan City with regular, scheduled commercial flights is Laguindingan Airport (CGY IATA) in Laguindingan, Misamis Oriental. There are multiple daily flights every day from Manila and Cebu with Cebu Pacific, AirAsia, and PAL Express. Flight time from Manila to Laguindingan Airport is approximately 1 hr 20 min. Flight time from Cebu is approximately 1 hr.

Cebu Pacific also has flights to Laguindingan Airport from Davao, Iloilo, Dumaguete, Tagbilaran, Bacolod.
AirAsia also has flights from Clark and Iloilo
By ferry[edit]
There are ferries from Manila, Cebu City, Ozamiz and Iloilo.

2GO Travel: Manila via Iloilo.
Cokaliong Shipping Lines: Cebu via Ozamiz
Trans-Asia Shipping lines: non-stop from Cebu
By bus[edit]
Super Five has buses from Laguindingan and Cagayan de Oro. Rural Transit also has buses from Laguindingan and CDO, as well as Ozamiz and destinations in Zamboanga Peninsula. The ticket price for a CDO–Iligan bus costs ₱145
There are two bus stations, one for buses to Cagayan de Oro and one for those headed west and south.

 Eastbound Integrated Bus and Jeepney Terminal, Circumferential Rd, Tambo (Near the Tambo public market). Receives buses headed for Iligan from Cagayan de Oro. Better organized, with a building housing shops and ticketing offices and bus bays. Modern jeepneys headed downtown are available. (updated Jul 2019)
 Iligan City Integrated Bus and Jeepney Terminal – West, Diosdado Macapagal Ave, Tomas Cabili. Buses coming from or headed for the west (Ozamiz, Pagadian, Dipolog, Zamboanga City) use this basic terminal. Vans and jeepneys from Marawi also use this terminal. Transfer to jeepneys bound for downtown are also available. There is a building housing the waiting area, but to get on or off the bus, jeepney or van involves a walk through dirt and gravel. (updated Jul 2019)
Get around[edit]
Jeepneys or jips are the most common public transport in the city with a minimum fare of ₱7.50. Taxis are readily available anytime of the day. It can be radio dispatched, and will pick you up if you give the dispatcher a call. Habal-habal or motorcycles are most common especially in going to the city outskirts or hinterland areas. There is also the famous "Tartanillas" (calesas) that is also a public mode of transportation which serves through Barangay Pala-o and Barangay Tambacan.

Talk[edit]
Cebuano is the common language  among Iliganons. but most people also speak English and Tagalog, Maranao, Hiligaynon, Ilocano, Chavacano, and Waray-Waray are also understood and spoken by a few.

See[edit]
There are numerous waterfalls, springs, and beach resorts.

Macaraeg-Macapagal Ancestral House - The house boasts as the only house in Mindanao where two Philippine Presidents resided. One being the father, and the other, the daughter, Pres. Diosdado Macapagal and HE Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo respectively. In 1994, upon the instigation of the late former President Diosdado Macapagal, the lot where the house stands and a two-hectare cocoland nearby were donated to the City Government of Iligan for the purpose of developing the place into a tourist destination with a memorabilia of the Macaraeg-Macapagal Family.
Bayug Island - Bayug (an island sitio of Barangay Hinaplanon, 3.7 km northeast of poblacion) is traditionally considered as the first settlement in Iligan even in pre-Islamic times.
Other places worth visiting: - Laya Ancestral House, Linya Galleria, MVC Park and Lagoon, Rizal Park, Freedom Park.
8.183333124.1944441 Maria Cristina Falls.   (updated Aug 2019)
Do[edit]
You may request a tour guide at the City Tourism Office (or take a tour on your own) to incorporate:

Buhanginan Hill site of city hall with a good view of the city.
Maria Cristina Falls
Timoga Spring Pools - Known for its pristine, cool and crystal clear waters freely flowing downstream towards several swimming pools. Shed, snack bars, cottages and lechon (roasted pig) stalls are available.
Mimbalut Falls - another waterfall and lagoon with swimming. Picnic tables are available if you simply want to wade and enjoy a quiet scenery and listen to the melodious chirping of birds.
Other things to do[edit]
In Barangay Hindang lies Hindang Falls and caves, a 40 ft (12 m) high two tiered waterfalls with lagoon ideal for swimming. It is nestled with towering peaks sheltering it from the sun and prying people. Other attractions of the barangay are the 6-8 cave clusters. Most caves have narrow entrances with long and deep chambers.
Mt. Agad-Agad - Approximately 1,600 ft (490 m) above sea level, very accessible and is good for mountain hikings and campings. A small waterfall is also featured on the way to the top of the mountain. Because it's so easy to climb, you may go up Mount Agad-agad in the morning and come down in the afternoon. But the trek will be much more worth the sweat if you spend the night there. At the peak, the panoramic overlooking view of Iligan City and Mt. Malindang in Misamis Occidental right across Iligan Bay is a spectacle. But wait till evening when the city lights look like the reflection of the stars.
Golf and Country Club of Iligan - A 9-hole golf course laid out on gently rolling low green hills which is a favorite among local golfers and others who come to Iligan. It is in Barangay Tipanoy which is about 6 km from the city.
Adlaw sa Iligan - On June 16, 1950, President Elpidio Quirino signed into law the charter of the new city of Iligan. In 1984, June 16 of every year was declared as "Adlaw sa Iligan" to commemorate and celebrate the founding of Iligan as a chartered city. It is usually during the weeklong celebration of the Iligan City Charter Day that the city government forges unity and partnership with the private sector and the barangay leaders in fellowship gatherings. Activities that traditionally enliven the occasion are agro-industrial fair, cultural and artistic performances and the Tambayayong Festival, a float competition of various government agencies.
Diyandi Festival sa Iligan - Folk-lore depicts Iligan's patron saint, St. Michael the Archangel as the protector of peace. Thus, his feast every 29 September, is a grand celebration in the city. In fact, it has transformed into a month-long festival, the "Diyandi Festival Sa Iligan". Every 27 September, Kasadya streetdancing and merrymaking is participated in by different schools, civic organizations, and ethnic groups. It is a showcase of Iliganon tradition depicting historical, cultural, and religious aspects, group competition of tribal dances, and presentation of a religious stage play.
Alimyon Flower Festival - Every Oct 30-Nov 2 flowers are brought directly from cut-flower growers in the farms and are priced cheaper than those displayed at shops and markets. The flowers in Iligan are also sold at Zamboanga City, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Ozamiz, and Pagadian.
Swimming pools[edit]
Maze Parks & Resort, and  Taytay Swimming Pool are a ₱13 jeepney ride from downtown Iligan and cost ₱100 per person to go in.
Buy[edit]
Banks & ATMs[edit]
There is a ₱250 fee is for overseas bank cards at ATMs.
 Bank of the Philippines Islands. Has a Master Card/Visa Card ATM. Maximum withdrawal ₱20,000. (updated Oct 2019)
BDO Bank has a Master Card/Visa Card ATM. Max ₱10000.
Metro bank has a Master Card/Visa Card ATM. Max ₱10000.
PNB has a Visa Card ATM. Max ₱10000.
Shopping malls & supermarkets[edit]
Gaisano Citi Super Mall - Roxas Avenue
Gaisano Iligan Main - Cabili Avenue
 Robinsons Place Mall, Macapagal Avenue. 9AM-8PM. (updated Mar 2016)
 Iligan Galaxy Express Mart, Manuel L Quezon Avenue. 9AM-6PM. Lower price supermarket. (updated Dec 2016)
Iligan delicacies[edit]
Cheding's Peanuts
Sukang Pinakurat
Babuyap
Souvenirs[edit]
Bamboo crafts
Ethnic products
Souvenir Iligan shirts
Eat[edit]
8.24151124.246951 Mr Beefy Burger, National highway. 24 hours. Hawaiian cheese ₱36. Ham egg ₱40. Bacon egg ₱40. Cheese burger with egg ₱40. buy one take one.. (updated Feb 2015)
8.22776124.258922 Marianos Home-cooked Specialties, Meadow Lark Street, ☏ +63 63 221 0095. M-W 16:00-21:00, Th-Sa 16:00-20:00. A more elegant affair. 
Drink[edit]
Coffee[edit]
Zoey Cafe - The first espresso bar in town. It offers unique coffee blends, cakes and pastries. Excellent home style meals with a welcoming atmosphere for locals and visitors alike.
Aruma Coffee Lounge - Located at the corner of De Leon and Burgos Sts.
Brew's Almighty- Michaella's Plaza, Tibanga Highway
Homebrew- Located near Andrada Heights, Del Carmen. The food there is so tasty and the atmosphere really brings you to a nature environment where you can relax and chill.
Bars[edit]
Sleep[edit]


This guide uses the following price ranges for a standard double room:


Budget
Under ₱700


Mid-range



Splurge


Iligan City offers adequate accommodation for every type of traveller. There are economy class hotels, pensionne houses, modest inns, and several lodging houses.

Budget[edit]
Famous Pension House 1 and 2, 2-A Northgate Street and 21 Milestone Drive. San Miguel Tibanga, 063 225-3966 or 09426337064 or 09322076880. A/c single and double rooms with own bathroom and 40 inch Cable TV. Free Wi-Fi. There are 81 rooms at the two Famous pension houses. Single room 24 hours ₱350. double room 24 hours ₱450. ₱50 off for 2nd night and on.
8.228562124.24841 StayLite Suites, Champaca Street, San Miguel Village, Pala-o (at the back of Philippine Independent Church), ☏ +63 (63) 228-0467, info@staylitesuites.com. Clean and affordable pension house offering 59 air-conditioned rooms, each with its own queen-sized bed and private bathroom. Features and amenities: 24-hour reception, 24-hour security, 24-hour room service, daily housekeeping, flatscreen cable TV, free Wi-Fi, free luggage storage, free parking, intercom. ₱300 12 hours. ₱600 24 hours. 
 D morvie Suites, Tibanga National Highway (fronting city hardware), ☏ +63 63 225-4780. A/C double rooms with own bathrooms and cable LCD TV. 12/24 hours. Free Wi-Fi. ₱250/₱450. 
 Flor-al Mansion, Gen aguinaldo street (near wet market). A/C rooms with own bathrooms and 40 inch cable TV. Free Wi-Fi. 12/24 hours ₱200/₱400. (updated Feb 2015)
 Plaza Alemania Lodge, Bernando Picardal Street, ☏ +63 63 2220927. Check-in: any time. A/C double rooms with own bathroom and cable TV, free Wi-Fi. 12 hours ₱250; 24 hour ₱500. (updated Jun 2016)
Connect[edit]
 Internet cafes. 24 hours. Many internet cafes. From ₱12 an hour. (updated Jun 2016)
Cope[edit]
Bureau Of Immigration Iligan office. 2nd floor, room 203. Diocesan Centrum Bldg. Slavador T Liuch Street.
Go next[edit]
Pagadian is 136 km from Iligan.
Ozamiz is 67 km from Iligan (2-hour bus and ferry ride).
Cagayan de Oro is 88 km from Iligan (2-hour bus ride).
Laguindingan Airport is 56 km from Iligan.







This city travel guide to Iligan is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Iligan&oldid=4884073"