
Ise Ekiti is a city of more than 204,000 people (2006) in Ekiti State. Ise Ekiti is divided into three quarters, which are:

Oraye
Odo Ise
Erinwa

Get in[edit]
7°27′23″N 5°26′0″EMap of Ise Ekiti
The easiest way to get into Ise Ekiti is first to get on a plane from any state in Nigeria and take a flight to Akure Airport, Akure, then from Akure, you can easily pick up a bus traveling to Ise-Ekiti at about N1,500 only.

 Akure Airport (LOS IATA), Obale (east of Akure, 12 km from the city centre). You can fly in from any state in Nigeria to those domestic airport. The nearest towns to the Airport are Owode, Eneowo, and Araromi communities. 
Another way to get into Ise Ekiti is by going to the bus stations at any state you are and boarding a bus travel.ing to Ise Ekiti. The price usually varies dependent on how far you are to Ise Ekiti.
See[edit]
 NYSC Orientation Camp. National Youth Service Corp Orientation Camp at Ekiti State is at Ise Ekiti. 
Do[edit]
Ise Ekiti might seem like a boring place for tourists at first but that is not exactly the case, as there are still some very interesting things to do in Ise Ekiti.

Arinjale of Ise-Ekiti: Palace to the king, popularly called 'Oba' of Ise Ekiti. The palace is a great place to visit, I'm very sure a tourist would appreciate visiting that place.
Buy[edit]
 Ise Ekiti Market. 
Unless you are in a supermarket or restaurant/bar with fixed prices, you will be expected to negotiate the price you pay for an item down to the lowest the vendor would sell. Of course, there are places to buy things in Ise Ekiti and the popular market is also a very nice spot, hawkers in Ise Ekiti usually camp at a spot selling anything from fresh food items like tomatoes, fish, vegetables, potatoes, meat, and whatever foodstuff you can think of, even Iyan, ewedu, efo, ila amongst other special Yoruba dishes.
Eat[edit]
There are various mama put available in Ise Ekiti, (in fact, almost everywhere you go to, you will see one) most especially local dishes. 
Dishes such as: 

Efo Riro
Egusi
Gbegiri
Amala
Semo
Iyan (Pounded Yam)
Ewedu
Ila (Okra) and many other Yoruba dishes are readily available. Rice Beans Spaghetti and others are not also left out.
All you need to do is to go into the canteen, place your order and eat, the food are relatively cheaper and more in quantity as compared to that of the big restaurants.

Drink[edit]
As you should expect, Ise Ekiti has some bars where you could drink, and you just need to pick the one you need, go in, and have a very good drink.

Sleep[edit]
Ise Ekiti has some cool places to sleep and some are even under construction. They are listed below:

 Omoboja Guest Hotel and Events, Ikere-Ise Road. A cool hotel to sleep in Ise Ekiti. 
Connect[edit]
In Ise Ekiti, a lot of places have 2G/3G/4G mobile networks coverage. Network providers like Airtel, MTN, Glo, and 9mobile which happen to be the most popular ones are used in Ise Ekiti. Most times, you will find out that some signal strengths are stronger than others depending on the place you find yourself. It is advisable you ask the locals for the network provider with the best signal at your lodging. However, this should not be a problem since most hotels have free Wifi access. If your place of lodging lacks one, one can consider having multiple SIM cards.
Each network has its unique value that it is known for e.g Glo network is known for supplying its customers with the cheapest data rates although the network signal is poor in a lot of areas. MTN on the other hand offers higher data rates but like its logo, it is everywhere you go. If you are in an area with a good signal, then Glo is highly recommended however if not, it is better to simply stick with MTN.
Other options for network providers could be Airtel( formerly known as Zain) and 9mobile (formerly known as Etisalat). They are also good and offer data at a fair price. Their network signal is next to MTN, particularly Airtel.

Go next[edit]
Ilawe-Ekiti
Ikeja
Oredo
Ikorodu
Isolo
Magodo





This city travel guide to Ise Ekiti is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ise_Ekiti&oldid=4355892"