
Jamshedpur is the largest city in the state of Jharkhand. It was named after the industrialist Jamsetji Tata and is home to such industrial giants as Tata Steel and Tata Motors. Jamshedpur is one of the 'Industrial Cities' of India, being known by many simply as "The Steel City".  Jamshedpur is completely maintained by Tata Steel for the most part. Tata Steel is responsible for the infrastructure as well the public services offered in most parts of the city.


Understand[edit]
Talk[edit]
Jamshedpur is in the East Singhbhum district. Languages spoken in the area are Hindi, Bhojpuri, Maithili, Bengali, Urdu, Punjabi, Tamil, Santhali and Odia. Jamshedpur is a cosmopolitan city with people from all over the country. English is understood in the main areas of visitor interest.

Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
New Tatanagar railway station
The railway station is known as Tatanagar, an important railway junction on the South Eastern Railway (SER) network and is connected to Ranchi and Barkakhana, Asansol on the Howrah–Delhi line via Purulia and Adra, and Gua via Noamundi and Barajamda. There are direct trains from all the major cities of India, viz., Kolkata, Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, Ranchi, and Patna. Kolkata and Patna are linked with superfast trains. You may also take a train to Dhanbad or Ranchi and then a taxi or a bus to Jamshedpur. It may take around four hours from Dhanbad to Jamshedpur and two and a half to three from Ranchi.

By bus[edit]
Regular bus services are available to Jamshedpur from Ranchi (140 km), Patna,  Gaya, Kolkata (270 km), and Hazaribagh.

By car[edit]
National Highway 33
Jamshedpur is connected by road with most of the major cities in India. NH 32 connects Jamshedpur to Govindpur on NH 2 (Kolkata-Delhi) via Chandil, Chas and Dhanbad. NH 33 connects Chandil to Barhi on NH 2 (Kolkata-Delhi) via Bundu, Ranchi, Ramgarh and Hazaribagh and also in the opposite direction to Baharagora on NH 6 (Kolkata-Western India) via Mahulia. Kolkata is 270 km from Jamshedpur via Baharagora and Kharagpur. Ranchi is 140 km from Jamshedpur. The highway from Ranchi is double-laned but without a divider. Chandil is about 35 km from Jamshedpur.

By plane[edit]
There are no commercial flights to Jamshedpur airport which is restricted to chartered planes of the TATA group.

Get around[edit]
22°48′40″N 86°12′32″EMap of Jamshedpur
Hired cars, minibuses and auto rickshaws are available in all parts of the town. Auto Rickshaws are available 24/7 at Jamshedpur railway station. However, there is no pre paid booth. Be prepared to bargain hard.

See[edit]
Jublie Lake
Keenan Stadium, Jamshedpur
22.8040786.155941 Bhatia Park. This park is at Shastri Nagar along the banks of the Kharkhai river. 
22.7777886.258952 Bhubaneshwari Temple. Located in Telco, atop a small hill. Offers a panoramic view of the city, and the scenic surroundings (breathtaking view of a meandering river.) The temple premises add a serene and spiritual touch to the surroundings. 
22.8636786.262843 Dimna Lake. Located approximately 13 km from the centre of the township. It is a manmade lake built by Tata Steel for water supply to the town. It has wonderful scenario near the Dalma hills. This lake is surrounded by mountains in all four directions, and has a guest house of Tata Steel. 
22.7619986.255544 Hudco Lake. Located in Telco Colony, is a beautiful park and picnic spot with an artificial waterfall and lake. 
22.8115586.196795 Jubilee Park. This park was a gift by Tata Steel to the citizens of Jamshedpur on its 50th anniversary. This 200-acre park, with a rose garden and a lake, now has a zoo and an amusement park. A favourite with joggers, cyclists and anglers. The Laser show and the musical fountains (introduced in 2000) is an excellent centre of attraction for the visitors. 
22.7966886.240266 Kali Temple (at Pardih on NH-33). Very famous temple of Goddess Kali, made on a raised cut mountain. 
22.8058386.19147 Keenan Stadium. This well known stadium has hosted several One Day International cricket matches, but is no longer in use. 
22.8353286.160988 Rivers Meet (Domuhani) (extreme north-west point of the city). The confluence of rivers Kharkai and Subarnarekha. A popular picnic spot. 
 Russi Mody Centre of Excellence. A unique structure, just outside the Jubilee Park, designed by the famous architect, Hafeez Contractor, is home to the many professional associations of Jamshedpur. It also houses the Tata Steel Archives, where one can see documents relating to the history of the Steel Company and the city. 
22.805886.189489 Sir Dorabji Tata Park. This park is near Keenan Stadium, and hosts Jamshedpur's annual flower show in December. 
22.815686.195210 Tata Zoological Park (Tata Steel Zoological Park). Located in Sakchi, one of the favourite tourism place in Jamshedpur. 
 Dhatkidih Masjid, Zamir Complex, Dhatkidih (near Kabir Memorial College, opposite DTDC Dhatkidih). A famous mosque in Dhatkidih, fully in white colour like Taj Mahal. (updated Dec 2020)
 Regal Building (Colonial House), Bistupur Main Rd, Bistupur. It was built in 1936. Nowadays it is a shopping mall. (updated Dec 2020)
Do[edit]
 Dalma Hill (3000 ft), Adjacent to the town (Towards Purulia). Drive 20 min through Tata-Purulia Highway towards Purulia. There is a driveway from the base to the top of the hill, where you can stay. There are two facilities, one provided by JUSCO and the other by the Forest Dept. 
 Gol Pahari, near Tata Nagar railway station. This temple is atop a small hill and offers a panoramic view of the city. 
Buy[edit]
Important markets[edit]
 Amar Market, Bistupur. The latest in youth fashion and footwear. 
 Birsanagar Market. Better known as the Sunday vegetable market. 
 Bistupur. Best markets, fashion stores, car showrooms, and the best hotels and restaurants. 
 Golmuri. The largest wholesale market for grains and foodstuff. 
 Jawahar Market, Bistupur. Electronics, CDs, video games and fashion. 
 Kharangajhar (lying at the outskirts of Telco Colony). This is the most important market for the employees of Tata Motors. 
 Sakchi Bazaar (the "centre" of the city.). Sakchi is present in the centre of Jamshedpur. Here you will find a very big market which is called Sakchi Bazaar, all types of malls, shops and show rooms. 
 Sanjay Market, Sakchi. Similar to Amar Market. 
 Sector Market, Telco colony. Internet cafe, beauty parlor for both men and women, medical store and other stores. 
Jugsalai Market, the wholesale capital of Jamshedpur.
Eat[edit]
 Appetite. A great multicuisine restaurant with a great view of the Tata Steel factory (best viewed at night). Located next to the Gurudwara in Sakchi. 
 Blooms. A suburban bar and restaurant in Bistupur. 
 Cinnamon. Good value for moeny. At the Sonnet Hotel, South Park Bistupur. It's a 24/7 facility. Breakfast here starts at 6AM. 
 Country Club. It is a beautiful Bar with Egyptian background on the walls, a swimming pool, and an ice cream parlour. 
 Daavat. Is a part of Hotel Asian Inn at Dhatkidih. Best Mughlai food you can ever have and don't miss the sizzlers if you happen to be there. 
 Deep Purple. A new restaurant on a slightly expensive side in Sakchi Area in the Hotel Smita International. Has a big screen to entertain you with music videos or any important sports event that are on. 
 Delhi Darbar. Quite cheap place for non-vegetarians, situated at Sakchi next to Shopper's Square mall. 
 Equinox. The most expensive restaurant of Jamshedpur, part of the Sonnet Hotel. 
 Ganga Regency, 171, New Baradwari, Sakchi (near Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital), ☏ +91 657-2422192. A luxurious hotel with spacious parking lots and excellent quality food and service available. 
 The Host. This is not a part of a hotel. Very good food and not very expensive. Located Near Hyundai Showroom, Bistupur. 
 Hotel Smita, Sackhi. The best hotel for authentic Bengali cuisine. The Taj festival is also famous . 
 Little Italy. The Fortune Hotel Centre Point in Bistupur has this great vegetarian Italian Restaurant. 
 Novelty. A great place to eat on the little more expensive side situated in Bistupur. 
 Sukhsagar. A very good pure vegetarian restaurant at Yashkamal Complex, Main Road Bistupur. 
 Wave International. A beautiful resort 16 km (10 miles) away from Jamshedpur on the Jamshedpur-Ranchi highway. 
Drink[edit]
Alcohol is strictly not served after 11PM due to local laws.

 Adda. The bar of the Sonnet hotel is an expensive but excellent place to spend evening. 
 Asian inn, Dhatkidhi (Near the Mosque). A good restaurant with good service and tasty food. Not so expensive. 
 Country Club. A beautiful bar with an Egyptian background on the walls, swimming pool, and an ice cream parlour. 
 Golden Ice. This comfortable bar at Hotel Ganga International offers very Standard Services. 
 60 ML. A great sports bar with very tasty food, also has a pool table. 
 Xing. The ITC Fortune Hotel Centre Point has a bar serving drinks. 
Restaurants — Equinox, Centre Point, Host, Deep Purple, Blooms all serve alcohol.
Sleep[edit]
22.794386.17631 Ramada by Wyndham, Holding No 3, Bistupur, ☏ +91 657 660 5000. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: noon. Has meeting rooms for business travellers and a gym for fitness junkies. Provides free parking and free breakfast. Pets are not allowed. 
Go next[edit]
Dimna Lake - 8 miles (13 km) from Jamshedpur, nestling at the foot of the Dalma hills. An artificial reservoir, it is one of the main sources for the city's drinking water needs. Has facilities for water sports (jetskiing/rowing).
Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary - it is 10 km from Jamshedpur, north of Subarnarenkha river, they stretch 16 km from east to west, and extends over 195 km2 in the thick forest of Dalma Mountain Range, which is 3,000 ft high. It is accessible by road. Famous for herds of wild elephants. Barking deer, sloth bears, leopards, porcupines and tigers are the other main inhabitants. There are small hideouts within the sanctuary to view the wild animals in their natural habitat. Facilities for trekking and mountain climbing.
Ghatshila - about 55 km.








This city travel guide to Jamshedpur is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Jamshedpur&oldid=4775626"