
Jastrzebia Gora is a small town on the Baltic coast, administratively part of Władysławowo. It is situated at the coast of Pomerania at a wide sandy beach. It is the most northern part of Poland and by many regarded as the most beautiful part of the Polish coast.

Rozewie Lighthouse

Get in[edit]
by plane - the international Lech Wałęsa airport in Gdańsk [1] or international Szczecin-Goleniów airport [2]
by car - exiting the A1 motorway from Gdańsk or Szczecin by the route E28 to Reda and than just north to Władysławowo by the 216. From Władysławowo north west along the coast.
by train: PKP [3]
by bus: PKS [4]
Get around[edit]
The resort itself is not very big, so you can easily walk on foot or rent a bike. There are a number of bus stops around the town serving the larger town of Wladyslawowo and Puck along with the Hel Peninsula. Since few years, each bus with the line number shown on front display is reliable and you can check their routes and timetables on the PKS Wejherowo site [5] (during the holiday you should use the podczas wakacji szkolnych <during school holiday> links). If driving, note that the main road through Jastrzębia Góra is cobblestone and quite narrow.
Taxis for the resort have to come from Władysławowo and may not be happy if you call them out for just a short journey. Negotiate a price if travelling long distances and check with your hotel who may have a contact for a reliable taxi driver.

See[edit]
Visit the resort's small Oceanarium and the old lighthouse in Rozewie (just outside the town), which is open to the public. Once in Rozewie, do not miss the Lisi Jar (Fox Gorge) - a large, natural ravine of outstanding beauty, which will take you right down to the sea coast. With northern winds you can see paragliders soaring above the cliff.

Do[edit]
The resort has excellent sandy beaches which can be reached after a short forestry walk.  Access to the beach is very steep in some places and may not be suitable for people with disabilities. There is one beach entrance, also steep but acceptable for families with children in prams or pushchairs, located at the end of Droga Rybacka.  Walking along beach is a must - even early morning and late evening.
Sunbathing and swimming in the sea is the biggest attraction of Jastrzębia Góra beaches. Of course it depends on weather, which could be surprisingly good (warm and sunshine for long weeks) or opposite - very awful (raining non stop for few days). You can see that lots of people are going to beaches even if it is cloudy and not very warm - and this is typical for Polish seaside. Do not hesitate then to try bathing in sea.

Buy[edit]
There are very few shops in the town but many stalls selling souvenirs, clothing and beach equipment.

Eat[edit]
There are a number of good eating places, mostly open stalls in the summer.

54.8332218.2987691 Kredens, Królewska 2, ☏ +48 58 674 95 81. M-F: 12:00—23:00. Sa, Su: 11:00—23:00. Is a restaurant in an olde-world setting near the park fountain. There is a pizzeria in the "Ara Hotel" centre nearby with local cuisine also. 
 Wędzarnia Przypiecek. Fish smokehouse which serves wide range of fishes smoked in a natural way. When you are on the seaside, why not to eat fish? Very adorable place, but be careful and do not eat too much - there are some notices hanged in the place telling that eating too much sometimes (especially if your stomach is in not very good condition) causes diarrhoea. You have been warned. 
Drink[edit]
 Cocktail Bar Max. Is a large circular thatched building looking like a South-Sea Island hut. Mainly the younger set and students here and a huge range of exotic cocktails served. Max's Bar is open 24 hours a day. No Polish beers here! 
Sleep[edit]
 Ara Hotel, ul. Rozewska 4a, ☏ +48 510 101 007, ara@arahotel.com.pl. In the centre but may be a bit noisy at night due to live disco-dancing every night, especially in high season. 
 Hotel Europa, =Ul. Topolowa. content A small, family run hotel with just 13 bedrooms and 1km from the main centre. 
 Pension Victor, Ul. Bałtycka. Little manor from 1921, near the coast with sea view. 
 Villa Odyn, Widokowa 2, ☏ +48 58 674 80 00. Offers 15 modern-designed rooms. Each room is equipped with bathroom, radio, electric kettle, night lamp. Free Wi-fi available for guests. 
Go next[edit]
Gdańsk Bay:

Pomeranian metropolis Gdańsk with a beautiful old town and the biggest Gothic brick church worldwide
sea resort Sopot with the longest European mole
sea resort and port Gdynia with the biggest Baltic port
sea resort Puck
Vistula Bay:

medieval town of Elbląg
sea resort and medieval town of Frombork with the grave of Nicolas Copernicus
sea resort Kadyny with one of the best European studs
Kashubian Coast:

Słowiński National Park with the biggest dunes in Europe
sea resort Rowy
sea resort Łeba
sea resort Rozewie
sea resort Władysławowo
Be prepared to stay in long queue of cars when riding to Władysławowo. You can use also an alternative road while driving to Władysławowo via villages Tupadły, Mieroszyno, Strzelno, Łebcz (here turn left into Młyńska St.), after few kilometers, when the road ends at crossroads, turn right and then immediately left into Żwirowa St. This road will help to save your time and nerves, also you can see beautiful sights of Polish Pomerania region villages.
On the Hel Peninsula:

sea resort Chałupy
sea resort Jastarnia
sea resort Jurata
sea resort Hel
When travelling to Hel town (a city, which is literally surrounded by the sea), it is good idea to use train. Quite new diesel trains are departing to Hel each 60-90 minutes. The journey take about 20 minutes. Avoid long distance trains arriving from cities all over Poland, they might be really crowded, otherwise you can take part in an adventure of travelling squeezed between people and their rucksacks and bikes.
On the Vistula Peninsula:

sea resort Krynica Morska





This city travel guide to Jastrzębia Góra is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Jastrzębia_Góra&oldid=4868454"