
Kasauli is a small town in the state of Southern Himachal Pradesh located at an altitude of 1,927 m. The town is 77 km from Shimla and 70 km from Chandigarh.


Understand[edit]
Kasauli is a hill station that was developed by the British Empire during its peak period in India. Despite its beauty, it has yet to find itself prominently on the tourist's map. In fact, it is very good for all those who yearn to spend some time alone with their family or with themselves.
Legend says that it came into existence after Lord Hanuman placed his feet here in order to advance onto the Sanjeevani hill. The place where the lord actually kept his feet is believed to be at a hillock which is 300 m high.
If you happen to visit the town during the off-season (November to February), it is quite likely that you will not come across any person for a long while on your walk. For those who are looking for fun and adventure, Kasauli will be a disappointment as there is hardly anything to do. There are some small attractions within and around the town that will keep you somewhat busy.

Get in[edit]
Christ Church
By bus[edit]
Buses ply quite frequently from Chandigarh and Delhi to Kasauli.

By road[edit]
For those driving from Delhi, take NH 1 to Ambala, and cross Sonepat and Karnal. From Ambala, take NH 22 for Kasauli. The route will pass Zirakpur, Panchkula, Pinjore, Parwanoo, and Dharampur. From Dharampur, a narrow hill road will take you to Kasauli. Or from Parwanoo, a narrow hill road will also take you to Kasauli via Jangeshu, Manoan, and Mashobra. (This road is part of the old Hindustan–Tibet Road, under heritage protection.)

By train[edit]
The nearest railhead from Kasauli is Kalka, 40 km away.

By plane[edit]
The closest airport to Kasauli is Shimla, 35 km away. Also, you can travel by air to Chandigarh, 65 km away.

Get around[edit]
30°54′0″N 76°58′0″EMap of Kasauli
See[edit]
 Christ Church. Close to the bus stand, it was constructed by the British family that founded the town of Kasauli itself. It is a magnificent structure built in the shape of a cross. Set amidst a grove of chestnut and fir trees, it is a place of worship for around 30 families. Apart from them, many tourists also flock here. Earlier, the church was known as the Anglican Church. In 1970, it was brought under the aegis of the Church of North India, and is now managed by the diocese of Amritsar.  
30.8889476.972351 Gilbert Trail. A short walk up from Sunset point you will find a trail leading to another viewpoint Gilbert Hill. It's not very famous and very few travellers actually go there. But the view from Gilbert Point is breathtakingly beautiful and in fact better than Sunset Point. Gilbert Hill is an army area though and you need to return from there by 18:30. 
 Gurudwara Shri Guru Nanakji. This historic Sikh gurudwara is located in Gharkhal bazaar on the main road towards Kasauli, having also lodging facilities. Besides the daily prayers, a procession is held every Sunday morning. Another Sikh gurudwara is located on the other side of the Kasauli ridge on the Kasauli–Mashobra (old Hindustan–Tibet) Road near the Air Force Radar Station. 
 Monkey Point (Manki Point) (The main trail to Monkey Point leads through the Air Force Guard Station at the end of Lower Mall and one is required to register here first. The entry closes at 5PM.). This is the highest point in Kasauli, the place where Lord Hanuman is believed to have set his feet while on his way to look for the Sanjeevani buti (herb). Around 4 km from the Kasauli bus stand, at its top, is a temple dedicated to Lord Hanuman that lies within the premises of the Air Force base. As such, there are a few restrictions: one is not allowed to carry bags or cameras inside. The hike up to the temple can be a bit difficult for those who are not used to climbing, but it is worth the effort. The views from atop the hill are simply magnificent if the day is clear. You can watch the brilliant sparkle of the Sutlej river as it makes its way through the plains and the pure beauty of the snow-capped peaks of the Dhauladhar Range. 
30.8916176.971282 Sunset Point. Situated about 1 km from the bus stand. Sunset point offers a magnificent view of the nearby hill regions. On a clear day, you may be able to view Chandigarh from up there. 
30.90276.9943 Sanawar (6 km from the town of Kasauli). At an altitude of 1,750 m, home to one of the major tourist attractions of the region, Lawrence School at Sanawar, founded by Sir Henry M. Lawrence and his wife Honoria more than a century and a half ago. Starting with 14 boys and girls, it is today one of the best schools in the country. In 1853, the British Empire awarded it the King's Colours, an honour bestowed upon only six schools the world over. The Lawrence School campus (139 acres, 55 ha) provides wonderful grounds to relax. There are pine, deodar and other coniferous trees on the campus. You can also take a round of the campus and observe the colonial buildings that retain their charm today. There is also a chapel on the campus.   
 Jagjit Nagar (Around 8 km from Kasauli on the Gharkhal-Nalagarh-Baddi 1½-lane road). It is increasingly receiving recognition as a summer home to Bollywood stars, politicians and bureaucrats, who find its wide-angle Himalayan (Dhauladhar) vistas quiet, relaxing and irresistible. Unlike Kasauli, Jagjit Nagar is much more serene and has dense forests. Accessibility from Chandigarh, improvement in local infrastructure, proximity to Kasauli, and friendly locals are some of the reasons why real estate is booming here. Land rates have seen a consistent annual spike of 300%. Some of the well-known names with private bungalows here include Deepa Mehta (the director of the movie Fire), Pickets "Rarewala House" and the heirs of Imperial Hotels. The main village has basic facilities like banks and shops. The area has one of the finest unobstructed views of the Dhauladhar Range, Greater Himalayan Range, Shimla, and Subathu on the northern side, and Nalagarh, Baddi, River Sutlej and its fertile plains to the south. 
30.8877.054 Dagshai (19 km from Kasauli). Once a favourite haunt of British families, it is today much less frequented by tourists. Nonetheless, its freshness is still charming. In fact, it gives you much more of a 'discovering' feeling than Kasauli itself. Walk around the paths and rest under the canopy of oaks and holly forests,.   
30.8877.055 Subathu. Gurkha fort built in the 19th century. The town was home to British soldiers during colonial rule.   
Do[edit]
Hiking – Kasauli has many outdoor trails where one can experience the natural serenity. Some of the better round-trip ones are located off Upper Mall Road and originate near the BSNL quarters located within the Indian Army premises. One such trail leads to Hanuman Point. There are other trails on the Lower Mall that will take you towards Gharkhal. The trails are safe and easy.
30.903276.97481 Kasauli Brewery and Distillery, Mohan Meakin Brewery, ☏ +91-1792272222. Established in the 1820s, it is the oldest functioning producer of single malt whisky in all of Asia. It produces Lion Beer and Solan No. 1. The bar and brewery are both open to the public from 7AM to 7PM daily.   (updated Nov 2021)
Buy[edit]
 Pinekonez. A famous souvenir shop 3 km before Kasauli where one can find designer ceramic mugs of Kasauli, antique jewellery of Himachal, and lots more. 
Eat[edit]
One can have tasty bunsams at any chai shop along the cobbled street. The young boy's shop on your right just before the street bends farther down to the left is the best.

 Cafe Rudra, Shop No. 24, Heritage Market, Solan District, ☏ +91 1792 272 289. Varied cafeteria food. Good for breakfast. (updated Nov 2019)
Drink[edit]
 Hangout Kasauli Regency. A rooftop open-air restaurant and bar with live guitar music. 10 rooms. Facilities provided include Wi-Fi internet, a recreation room with table tennis, snooker and other indoor games, and, above all, the crown of the property is the rooftop restaurant bar hangout. 
30.8977576.969211 Kasauli Club. Within the Indian Army premises, Kasauli Club is one of the most prestigious social clubs in India. Its membership is highly sought after, and, thus, there's an average waiting time of 15 years. The club is managed by a regular Indian Army officer assigned as the 'Club Secretary'. The remaining staff is comprised of civilians. The history of this club dates back to the British era when Kasauli was founded as an accessible summer retreat. Typical of hill architecture, the club was constructed mostly of seasoned wood. Some years ago, tragedy struck when a malfunctioning electric component started a fire which razed the club. A new and much-improved wood structure has since replaced the old one. The interior finish and decor are lavish. Facilities include lodging (4–5 rooms), a squash court that has been redone, two tennis courts, bridge/card rooms, billiards, and an outdoor garden. The club has sisterly ties with many other clubs across India, including the Shimla Club. 
Sleep[edit]
 MM Hotel, Main Bus Stand (on main bus stand and in close proximity of Kasauli Mall Road and Kasauli Church), ☏ +91 9736796499. Affordable and convenient to reach. 
 White Mushroom Kasauli Hotel, ☏ +91 7827824444, customercare@whitemushroomholidays.com. Away from the hustle and bustle of the main road, built in a lush green environment, surrounded by forest area. (updated Jun 2018)
 Nazara Home Stay, Village Jangeshu, ☏ +91 7807097214, +91 8219232957, goswami.raj2225@gmail.com. 2000. (updated May 2019)
Go next[edit]
Chandigarh
Solan







This city travel guide to Kasauli is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Kasauli&oldid=4714109"