

Sunset, Pattaya Beach at Ko Lipe
6°29′14″N 99°17′57″EMap of Ko Lipe
Ko Lipe (Thai: เกาะหลีเป๊ะ) (sometimes spelled Koh Lipe) is an island in Satun Province, off the Andaman Coast of Southern Thailand. It is 50km northwest of Langkawi, Malaysia, 67km west of Pak Bara, and 200km southeast of Phuket. It is part of a cluster of islands called the Butang / Adang Archipelago.
Ko Lipe is known for diving, snorkeling, beautiful white sand beaches, and a relaxed atmosphere. It has been referred to as "The Maldives of Thailand".


Understand[edit]
The name "Ko Lipe" is a corrupted version of the Malay name, Pulau Nipis, meaning "thin island".
In 1973, Tarutao National Park was established; however, Ko Lipe is outside of the jurisdiction of the neighboring 51 islands of Tarutao National Park, and as such, development is permitted on the island.
The island is home to about 500 Urak Lawoi sea gypsies ("chao leh" in Thai and "orang laut" in Malay) who are descendants of the first and only inhabitants of the island 300 years ago. Many of them fled in the late 1800s, when the Dutch mistook them for pirates, due to their nomadic lifestyle. Ownership of the island was disputed since it was uninhabited, and to prevent Malaysian encroachment, they were given a grant to half of the island and live in small villages, predominantly around the far east side of the island near Sunrise Beach. Although some are involved in tourism, many sustain from fishing and farming of rice and vegetables. They retain their animist beliefs in the spirits of their ancestors, the island, and the sea. Twice a year, during the full moon in late May or early June and in late October or early November, they hold a 3-day spiritual festival called pla juk or loy rua, where they pay respects to the memory of their ancestors. 
In the 1980s, currency was introduced to the island. Resorts were constructed starting in the 1990s.
Tourism has resulted in water shortages, waste disposal issues, and other environmental problems. It is common to see garbage being burnt since there are not many reliable options for waste disposal. To help combat this problem, many restaurants and bars will refill used plastic or reusable water bottles for free or very little cost. Look for places with white water jugs or standard water dispensers to reduce waste.

Get in[edit]
As of January 2024, a plastic pontoon floating pier has been constructed where speedboats arrive. If coming from Langkawi, an immigration officer will stamp passports on arrival. There is also a ฿200 fee for entry into the national park; save the ticket as it allows for entry to other nearby islands.

By plane[edit]
The nearest airports are in Trang and Hat Yai, which is accessible by ferry then bus, or in Langkawi, accessible by ferry.

By boat[edit]
In the high season of November to May, speedboats and ferries are offered to/fromLangkawi (1.5 hour), Pak Bara (1.5 hours), Ko Tarutao (45 minutes), Trang (2.5 hours), Ko Lanta (3 hours), and Phuket (5 hours). Operators to/from Thailand include Satun Pakbara Speed Boat Club, Tiger Line, and Bundhaya Speed Boat and operators to/from Langkawi include Tropical Charters and Telaga Terminal. Ferries operate from mid of October until end of May from/to Langkawi, typically ferry schedule available in the morning and afternoon trip daily, but during shoulder season only available one trip daily, Langkawi to Koh Lipe schedule for both Kuah jetty and Telaga Harbour departure. 
Speedboats can often bounce off the waves at very high speeds and passengers can get quite strong jolts into the non-sprung seats, so persons with back or neck problems should not travel on the speedboats, but on ferries. There have been reports of serious back injuries happening on the speedboats. 

Get around[edit]
Public transport, Ko Lipe style
All of Ko Lipe can be covered on foot. A walk between the two furthest walkable points on the island, Serendipity Resort and Patai Galah Beach, takes about 45 minutes for the 3 km journey, using the roads. There are many motorcycles on the island, although none of them are for rent. The saleng are motorcycle sidecar taxis (labeled as such with drivers wearing numbered blue vests) that charge ฿50 per person for any journey or ฿300 per hour, they are typically parked near the 7-Eleven or ordered by phone (phone numbers are displayed on many of the electric poles). There are pickup trucks on the island belonging to resorts and used to transfer their customers' bags on arrival/departure and as shuttles. Certain resorts also operate golf carts as shuttles. Narrow concrete roads link the various beaches.
Long-tail boats will take you from any point on the island to any other point on the island for ฿50. 

See[edit]
There is a very small Buddhist temple in the center of the island.

Do[edit]
Beaches - Sunrise Beach in the east faces the sunrise; sunset views are prominent at the smaller Sunset Beach in the west, and Pattaya Beach has more nightlife. Karma Beach in the north faces the Adang/Lipe channel. There are also several smaller beaches including Galah Beach, Svedo Beach, and Batata Beach, near the "secret beach" in the southwest of the island.
Fishing is illegal near the island, so stay away from fishing trips and do not purchase locally-caught fish.

Diving and snorkeling[edit]
Clownfish off Ko Lipe
Around Ko Lipe are some of Thailand's best reefs, all within easy reach. The reefs around Ko Lipe are largely intact; the 2004 tsunami had little impact here.
The currents here are predominantly tidal which means that at certain times of the month strong currents exist. At other times, none at all. You can always find somewhere good to dive but the widest selection of dive sites is available twice a month, following the half moon.
You can see sharks, whale sharks, and manta rays. Sightings of are more likely on sites around the edge of the marine park, nearer the deeper waters. For the best chances, try to visit 8 Mile Rock, Stonehenge or Ko Pung.
The calm, clear water makes the Ko Lipe area ideal for snorkelling, with 25% of the world's tropical fish species found in the area. There are large varieties of fish around the coral 20m off all of the beaches. Ko Lipe is surrounded by over 30 islands and hundreds of reefs all within easy reach of the island. Tarutao National Park is one of Asia’s oldest marine parks thus the reefs and the islands surrounding Ko Lipe are in very good condition. Nowhere else on the Southeast Asian peninsula will you find so many excellent snorkel sites so easily reached. Snorkeling day trips on a long boat for 10-15 people, visiting 3 snorkeling locations, generally cost ฿600-700 per person.

8 Mile Rock - A true deep sea pinnacle 75 minutes away by boat. The rock can be a tough place to dive due to the strong currents, but the marine and bird life that come here to feed are fantastic. The top of the pinnacle rises to within 14 meters of the surface. Found here: soft corals, schools of pelagic fish, potato cod, manta rays, whale shark, leopard shark.
Between Ko Adang & Ko Rawi - Has excellent diving and snorkellng locations between the two islands where the mountains come down to the sea. Underwater there are huge boulders and many types of rare fish and coral species that inhabit the reef in this region. A great spot for drift diving. Snorkelers should head for the east side of Ko Rawi where the national park staff have set up ropes along the reef, so that snorkelers can pull themselves easily along and investigate the reef with ease.
Yong Hua Shipwreck - In 1996, a fish-factory ship anchored near the western end of Ko Lipe caught fire and sank in about 40m of water.  The shipwreck is now completely covered in marine growth and inhabited by schools of fish. The shipwreck has become a very interesting place to dive, but does often have strong currents making it a difficult dive. The top of the wreck is at about 26m sitting on its keel that is at 40m.
Hin Takorn Dukong - This site is home to just about every species of fish that you can imagine. The site is made up of granite stones shaped similar to building blocks rising up from the seabed into a structure with a series of tall points at its peak. Up to 18m deep. Hard and soft corals, at least 6 types of eel such as snake eels, different types of lion fish and stone fish, squid and cuttlefish try to hide here and succeed in attracting the larger predators such as sailfish.
Ko Bu Tang - One of the most popular islands to dive. One of the largest islands of the group, Ko Bu Tong supports many bird and animal species. Troops of crab-eating macaque monkeys live on the island and a colorful type of bee-eater bird can often be spotted from the beaches here. Giant corals and shellfish grow everywhere around this island paradise. Dive the north and south channels although for deep diving the "Giant's Staircase" on the islands west side has huge natural stone steps going down to 50 m or more. Also to found on Ko Bu Tang is Sting Ray City, where the blue spotted stingrays are plentiful. This site is also very good for snorkeling. North Side: has Monkey Bay, similar to Sting Ray City but much more steep and dramatic. Expect to see endless rows of tall coral-heads, turtles and rare critters such as the ornamental ghost pipe fish and sharks sleeping under the corals. East Side: has the perfect tiny island of Ko Lokoi. Surrounded by about 90 acres of shallow coral, you could do four dives here and not see it all.
Ko Sawang - A tiny island on the outer edge of the archipelago. There is not a tree or scrap of vegetation that can grow on this tall smooth stone, but underwater this place is full of life. Fantastic coral gardens growing on the rocky outcrops below.
Ko Langcha - Between Langcha and Adang is a very nice coral garden really worth the effort both for divers and snorkellers as near-perfect gardens shelter all sorts including rays and eels.
Diving and snorkeling trip providers[edit]
 Adang Sea Divers (info@adangseadivers.com) (Sunrise Beach), ☏ +66 90 070 0233. Professional, multilingual, and experienced instructors and dive masters. 1 to 3 dives a day from speedboat. The only dive centre on Ko Lipe offering speedboat dives. SSI and Nitrox courses. Small intimate groups. Specialised in underwater photography. (updated Mar 2024)
 Castaway Divers (Sunrise Beach), ☏ +66 87 4781516, lipe-divers@castaway-resorts.com. Multilingual, experienced instructors. Offers night diving, PADI, SDI and freediving courses. Snorkeling trips are run separately from the dive boats daily. Specialises in small intimate groups. Also offers free-diving, where you spend time in the underwater world while holding your breath. Beach dive: ฿1,200; 1 dive: ฿1,600; 2 dives: ฿3,000; 3 dives: ฿4,000. 
6.48742599.3000981 Davy Jones Locker, 323 Moo 7, Koh Lipe (Pattaya Beach), ☏ +66 987048474. Experienced instructors teaching all PADI courses from beginner to divemaster level. Daily trips for certified divers to all the best dive sites around Ko Lipe. Free accommodation for divers and students available when you book online. 
 Forra Diving (Sunrise Beach), ☏ +66 89 6731121, +66 84 4075691. Multilingual, experienced instructors. Offers night diving, PADI courses, and liveaboard diving trips. Snorkellers are welcome to tag along on day trips for only 500 baht (including lunch & equipment). Dives from ฿1,500. 
6.4873199.305822 Ko Lipe Diving (Walking St, 200 m from Pattaya Beach), ☏ +66 88 3977749, contact@kolipediving.com. 08:00-22:00. Ko Lipe Diving is a SSI Diamond Dive Center and Instructor Training Facility. They offer daily fun dive day trips for certified divers, a full range of SSI courses from beginner to pro, introductory dives (you can try Scuba Diving) and a wide range of SSI specialties. PADI courses available as well. Non-divers are welcome to join daily trips for snorkeling or a cruise around the islands. Biggest dive boat on the island, 25 meters long, 3 decks, 2 toilets. They can also arrange private trips for couples, friends and families combining diving, snorkeling and island exploration. You can expect professional diving instruction and services in a relaxed and friendly atmosphere. Well organised. Experienced, multilingual instructors speak English, French, Spanish, Italian, Swedish, German, Dutch, Malay and Chinese (Mandarin and Cantonese). Dives from ฿1,700. 
 Ocean Pro Diving (Pattaya Beach), ☏ +66 89 7338068, oceanprodivinglipe@gmail.com. open all year. PADI dive centre and Ko Lipe's First PADI TecRec Center, Poseidon ECCR Rebreather rentals. Canadian owner. The first authorized Padi TecRec Dive Center at Koh Lipe 20m boat, the M.V. Chalalai. Snorkeling offered. 
 Satun Dive Resort (Sunrise Beach Blvd), ☏ +66 86 9461271. Excellent diving and snorkelling guides. All PADI courses available. 
Other activities[edit]
Day Trips to Nearby Islands - The nearby island of Ko Adang includes Pirate Falls  (90 minute hike each way) and Chado Cliff as well as hikes with viewpoints overlooking Ko Lipe. The island of Ko Rawi has a dense jungle. They can be reached by boat taxis.
Kayaking - Rent a kayak from various spots on the beach and spend the day or two seeing the island and reef.
Massages - There are plenty of places to get a massage, including an offshoot of the Wat Po massage school in the centre of the island and many massage places on Walking Street. Castaway Resort has a lovely little spa with sea views. A 1 hour massage costs ฿300-400.
Sailing - Sailing around Ko Lipe and within the Butang Group is certainly the most chilled way to explore these natural gems. There are day sailing trips with snorkelling activities or liveaboard sailing cruises within the Butang Group or as far as Ko Tarutao National Marine Park.
Yoga classes - Offered by Castaway Resort and Kerita's Yoga. 1 hour classes cost ฿400.
Batik Workshops - offered by Lipe Art Garden, which also offers lodging.
Buy[edit]
Welcome to Walking Street!
There are three ATMs on the island. One is at 7-Eleven on Walking Street. Another is across from Pooh's at the Sunrise end of Walking Street, and the third is in front of Harmony.
Many travel agencies or hotels will offer to charge your debit/credit card and give you the cash for a 5-8% fee.
For currency exchange, Bundhaya Resort offers the best exchange rates for dollars, euros, pounds or ringgit, but the rate is less than you would receive in a major city.
Ice can be bought from Ricci house for ฿10/kg.
Prices are uniform on the island and haggling does not produce results.

Eat[edit]
There are plenty of eateries on the island and most hotels serve food and drinks.

 Banana Tree (Inland). Serves average food, but drink prices are good and they project movies every night on a big screen. 
 BAY - Panoramic Restaurant (On a hill overlooking Pattaya Beach). Thai food. 
 Benny’s On The Beach (at Adang Sea Divers). Koh Lipe's only plant-based restaurant. Free WiFi. Occasional theme parties and discounted drinks. 
 Elephant American Coffee House (Walking Street, near Pattaya Beach, across from the Pink Market), ☏ +66 88 850 1473. 7AM-1AM; kitchen open until 12:30AM.. An East-meets-West American-style coffee house with owners from San Francisco and Thailand. Expertly crafted coffee drinks, homemade bakery, well-prepared breakfasts, including homemade toasted muesli and lots of crispy bacon. Other menu items include proper American burgers with imported Australian beef, sandwiches, a large selection of fresh salads, fresh baked bread, on-toast breakfast menu including avocado and ricotta toast options, eggs Benedict on homemade English Muffins, southern fried chicken, baked macaroni and cheese, pizza, and even a kid's menu! There is also full bar built into an actual 10-meter longtail boat, which offers a cocktail list that features very affordable cocktails made with artisan Thai spirits, as well as high-end imported liquor. Every night starting at about 8:30pm, the Banana Band serves up Thai and English music in a relaxed setting. The Band's motto is "if you're in the bar, you're in the band" - meaning everyone can join the fun!! ฿40-800. 
 Flour Power Bakery (Sunset Beach, next to Sabye Divers). There is a brilliant banana cake in small aluminium box shapes. The seats are somewhat hidden behind the house. Western breakfasts and sandwiches are served with their hearty whole-grain bread. cinnamon buns: ฿60, brownies: ฿40; pies: ฿80. 
 FINO Restaurant. Seafood. 
 On The Rocks Restaurant at Serendipity Beach Resort. Burgers and pasta. Also has exotic cocktails and drink specials. 
 Papaya Mom Restaurant, Walking Street. Thai food. Seafood. Live music. 
 Thai Lady Pancake Shop (island centre). Choose from fillings like coconut, banana, and chocolate. Delicious smoothies sold in plastic cups. 
Drink[edit]
OMG! Sports Bar & Restaurant
Most of the hotels serve food and drinks. Those that have water served from large jugs will refill used water bottles for customers if asked politely. Beers cost ฿50 at 7-11 or ฿100 in a bar. Spirits cost around ฿150 and cocktails cost ฿200-250.

 Home Reggae Bar. Mr. Nor, the owner, is a real Rasta and is very friendly.  Mostly plays reggae music. Cosmic atmosphere. Mellow scene. If you ask Mr. Nor to see his nunchucks collection, he will proudly show it to you. On 6 February, they celebrate Bob Marley's birthday with a 3-day music and culture festival. 
 OMG! Sports Bar & Restaurant (50 m from the intersection, at the end of Walking St (near Sunrise Beach) toward Chao Lay Village). There are pool tables and TVs for watching big sports events, and there are usually a few local divers hanging out there. They also serve some delicious bar food and bar snacks. Open late. Also sells Swedish snus. 
 Sealavie Beach Bar (Sunrise Beach). A bar on the beach where customers sit on large bean bags. 
 Time to Chill Bar, 325 Walking St (In the forest). An outdoor bar in the forest with a thatch hut theme. 
 VERD Ko Lipe, 325 Walking St. A stand that sells cannabis edibles and cannabis mojitos. 
Sleep[edit]
Day-beds at Ko Lipe Beach Resort
Budget[edit]
 Bloom Cafe and Hostel (Inland, on Walking Street), bloom.cafe.hostel@gmail.com. Dorm beds and private rooms above a cafe. Claims to have the best coffee on the island at the cafe. Guests are generally under age 30. Dorm bed: ฿500. 
 The Chic Lipe. A luxurious hostel that also offers private rooms. However, it is more popular with couples than with backpackers and does not have the traditional hostel atmosphere. Dorm beds from ฿500. 
 Decho Hostel (Walking Street). Very basic dorms and private rooms with balconies. Affiliated with a travel agent for booking diving trips. Opened in 2017. From ฿900. 
 Lipe Village, Off Walking Street. Budget hotel. Double room: ฿1,200. 
 LLITS Koh Lipe, 325 Walking Street. A hostel with dorm beds and private rooms. From ฿650. 
 Nest Hostel Lipe, Walking Street. A clean and comfortable hostel with dorm beds and private rooms. No dedicated common area; guests hang out on the front porch. Dorm bed: ฿450; Private rooms: ฿1,750. 
 Sang Chan Hostel, Walking Street, sangchanhostel@gmail.com. Extremely clean basic dormitories and private rooms with fans and a good atmosphere for meeting other travelers. Several cats hang out at the hostel; not for those that are allergic. Dorm bed: ฿400; Private room: ฿1,000. 
 Seahorse Lipe Hostel (Off Walking Street). Rooms are small but comfortable. Shared bathrooms. WiFi is weak. Dorm bed: ฿400; Single room: ฿450; Double room: ฿800. 
 The Street Hostel. Mixed dorms of 4, 6, or 8 beds, including queen sized bunk beds. Dorm beds from ฿450. 
Mid-range[edit]
 Adang Sea Divers (Behind Sunrise Restaurant, next to Varin Village), ☏ +66 80 7041366. Open all year. Eco-friendly. Bungalows: 5 small cosy double fan rooms. Private fully equipped bathroom with hot/cold shower, kettle for tea and coffee in the room, terrace on the garden side. Bungalows are cleaned and towels are provided. The resort recycles its grey water and most of its wastes. Discounted lodging for divers 
 Anda Resort (Sunrise Beach). Beachfront location, includes hotel rooms and bungalows in traditional Thai decors. From ฿3,000. 
 Bonus Resort (Mid-island, about 400 m from Pattaya Beach and 200 m from Sunrise Beach.). Open Nov-May. Cheap bungalows in middle of the island. There are about 20 fan bungalows and 3 family rooms set among the garden-like jungle. Balcony, mosquito nets, bed, bathroom inside. Electricity 24/7. 
 Box Resort (Inland). 9 rooms. Eco-friendly resort made from converted shipping containers. Also has a tapas bar. Rooms are rarely available. 
 Bundhaya Resort & Villas (Southernmost resort on Pattaya Beach), ☏ +66 74 750248. Open all year. 80 bungalows. Fan rooms are in the back of the site and are grotty. Resort services include: snorkel and dive trips, mini mart, Internet, and laundry. There is a large open air restaurant and bar with a fantastic view of the beach. Breakfast is included. Decent exchange rates for major currencies. Bungalows from ฿6,200. 
 Cabana Lipe Beach Resort, Sunrise Beach, Moo 7 (Sunrise Beach). Well constructed hotel with beachfront views. From ฿3,600. 
 Casa De Lipe Resort and Residence (Sunset Beach). AC rooms with large white decks right on the beach. 
 Castaway Resort & Restaurant (S end of Sunrise Beach), ☏ +66 83 1387472, +66 81 1707605, lipe@castaway-resorts.com. Open all year. It has 43 wooden stilt bungalows with large decks with hammocks, some directly on the beach. Hmong blankets drape over the roomy beds, and fabric lanterns hang in the corner of the rooms. Cold water showers only. The bar and restaurant serves BBQ, Thai, and Western food. It's a nice place to chill out day or night with a cocktail. Daily 1-hour yoga classes in the morning and afternoon for ฿400. Bungalows from ฿2,500; House from ฿4,000. 
 Chareena Hill Beach Resort & Chareena Beachside Resort (Pattaya Beach). Check-in: 2PM to 9PM, check-out: 7:30AM to 11.00AM. Will arrange a shuttle from the boat drop off location. From ฿2,200. 
 Coco Beach Bungalows (On Sunrise Beach, next to Castaway Resort). Basic bungalows with AC, WiFi, refrigerators, and balconies. From ฿1,200. 
 Daya Resort (W end of Pattaya Beach), ☏ +66 80 5082087. Open November to May. Several fan bungalows close to the beach. Exteriors are painted in bright, sunny colours and have verandas looking out onto lovely gardens. Bathrooms have cold water only. There is a very popular seafood restaurant. It's run by a local family, the Chao Ley fishermen who bring their daily catch up the beach and serve it in the evenings. More than 20 bungalows. The family live at the top and bottom entrances so there is some security including the guard dogs. From this resort, you can walk into the next one run by an Italian and have a great breakfast and pizza for lunch. One of the staff is called Bing, and he is a very helpful. Fan room from ฿1,000; Bungalows from ฿6,400. 
 Forra Diving & Bamboo Resort (Sunrise Beach), ☏ +66 89 6731121. Open all year. 18 well-designed, spacious bungalows, built from natural materials. Every bungalow has one four-poster bamboo double bed or two platform-raised bunk beds with mosquito net and a large terrace and sea view. Some bungalows have a mezzanine floor with an upper window for a good view. and the option of a second bed. Each bungalow has a fan (electricity 08:00-10:30 and 17:30-24:00). Bungalows to sleep 1-4 people available. Advance reservations only accepted from divers. Restaurant serves home-made pizzas and drinks. Bungalows: ฿800-฿2,000, with a 25% discount on the bungalow on the days that you dive with Forra.. 
 Family Song Koh Lipe (far west end of Pattaya Beach). Open November to May. Incredible views. The concrete bungalows are particularly unattractive, musty and damp, with splotches of mould on the walls. The bamboo huts are quite a bit brighter and tidier. To get to your room, you'll have to clamber over a maze of steps, stairs, and muddy paths. Fan bungalow: From ฿1,600. 
 Gecko Lipe Resort (in the Chao Ley Village). In the forest. From ฿4,000. 
6.4883899.309931 Gipsy Resort, ☏ +34659610689. Open November to May. Two rows of thatched huts running off of the beach. Rooms are compact but attractive, with bamboo walls, big beds draped in mosquito netting, sunny open-air bathrooms. Can be a little difficult to find the managers. 
 Green View Beach Eco Resort, 80 Moo 7 (Pattaya Beach). Bungalows are made with all eco-material: bamboo, wood, leaves, earthen tiles, and granite. Waste is recycled. 
 Harmony Bed and Bakery (Off Walking Street). Simple rooms but not for fussy travelers. Double room: ฿1,800. 
 Idyllic Resort (South Sunrise Beach). Open all year. Contemporary concept resort. All rooms are nicely decorated and have a luxury finish. Health spa, Wi-Fi, restaurant and bar. ฿4,500-฿9,500. 
 Kathalee Lipe Resort (Southern end of Sunrise Beach). Nice rooms with AC and free rental of kayaks and snorkels. From ฿2,800. 
6.4930199.3089052 Koh Lipe Beach Resort, Sunrise Beach, Moo 7, ☏ +66 80 5431 466, reservations@lipebeachresort.com. 41 stand-alone bungalows in a tropical setting. Accommodations range from bamboo and wooden bungalows to rooms. Majority of the bungalows offer sea view. From US$60. 
 Mountain Resort (E end of Sunset Beach, N tip of Lipe Island, facing the Ko Lipe/Adang channel). Most rooms feature hot water, satellite TV, a private deck, and spectacular views of the bay. 24 hour electricity. Breakfast included. Mountain Beach Bar offers drinks & massages on the beach. Discounted rates available for on-line reservations. Credit cards accepted. From US$60. 
 Paradise Cottage Resort (Pattaya Beach). Open Nov-May. 15 spacious bamboo bungalows with private bathroom, some on the beach. High season: Cottage from ฿600; Fan room from ฿1,000; AC room from ฿1,500. 
 Plaloma Resort Lipe (Inland). A family run business with basic but renovated spacious rooms and a plentiful breakfast. From ฿1,800. 
 Pooh Bar Resort (At the end of Walking Street in the middle of the island), Poohbar.resort@gmail.com. Owned by Pooh and Soi. Live jazz and blues music. Food can be overpriced. 
 Sanom Beach Lipe Resort (Up the hill at Sanom Beach, a short walk from Pattaya Beach). Chao Ley-owned and operated. On the hillside of Sanom Beach, with panoramic views of Pattaya Beach and the Andaman Sea. Open year round. Credit cards and PayPal accepted. From ฿2,200. 
 Sea To Moon (Sunrise Beach). Basic rooms by the beach. From ฿1,200. 
 Serene Resort. This resort does not live up to its name—rooms near the bar are noisy—but the prices are good. 
 Sita Beach Resort (Pattaya Beach). Open all year. Many luxurious bungalows around a pool and more going up the hillside. Bungalow: From ฿3,300. 
 The Reef (near Sunrise Beach, easily found on the hill in the centre of the island). Open 1 Nov-15 May. 12 modern rooms are set around a garden courtyard and have access to a terrace overlooking the mountains of Ko Adang, the Chao Ley village and Sunrise Beach. All rooms have air-con and hot showers. Bicycle rental: ฿150 per day. ฿950-฿3,200. 
 Varin Beach Resort (Mid-Pattaya Beach, next to the path to Sunrise Beach and the village), ☏ +66 74 728080. Open all year. 100 bungalows in many different sizes. 24-hour electricity, private terraces. The beds are reasonably comfortable and the pillows are divine. Longhouse rooms are the cheapest, but there's no soundproofing. The air conditioned villa has fridge and a TV with satellite channels. Massage salon as well as a bar and restaurant are on-site. Breakfast is fried rice, eggs, fried noodles, fruit. Villas have hot showers. From ฿900. 
 Wapi Resort (Sunrise Beach, near the end of Walking Street). Set in a mature pine tree garden, that provides shade. Low season: From ฿1,600; High season: From ฿2,700. 
 Zanom Sunrise Resort and Restaurant (S Sunrise Beach), ☏ +66 87 4750494. Spacious and comfortable bungalows with fans (no air conditioning) and private baths (cold water only). The friendly local owners also run a restaurant there that is only open in high season (mid-Nov to mid-May). They serve breakfast, coffee, drinks, seafood, and Thai-style fried fish. A few plastic tables are set up on the sand. 
Splurge[edit]
 Akira (Pattaya Beach). One of the nicest places to stay on the island. From ฿6,800. 
 Ananya Lipe Resort (Pattaya Beach). 67 rooms. ฿10,000-฿15,000. 
 Bulow Casa Grand View Resort & Spa, 2 Moo 8 T. Kohsarai A (At the northern end of Sunrise Beach). Luxurious and romantic bunglows with floor-to-ceiling windows, beach views, and private terraces with pools and jacuzzis. From ฿8,000. 
 Irene Resort (On the northwest coast where Sunrise  Beach and Sunset Beach meet). 16 villas with floor-to-ceiling windows and beach views. Custom designed long-tail boat excursions and all-day dining options. ฿15,000-฿32,000. 
 Mali Resorts Pattaya Beach (Pattaya Beach). Luxury rooms, suites, and villas in Balinese style with vaulted ceilings and private gardens. ฿3,200-฿8,000. 
 Mali Resorts Sunrise Beach (At the southern end of Sunrise Beach). Luxury suites and villas in Balinese style with vaulted ceilings and private gardens. ฿5,500-฿6,800. 
 Serendipity Resort (At the southern end of Sunrise Beach). On a private beach, with rooms of 50-55 square meters and villas as big as 200 square meters. ฿10,000-฿20,000. 
6.484199.31113 Ten Moons Lipe Resort (S end of Sunrise Beach), ☏ +66 618533936, info@tenmoonsliperesort.com. Check-in: 12:00, check-out: 10:00. Open all year. Bungalows are built at the beachfront and on a hill with views of the sea and the surrounding islands, set on its own private beach. Bungalows are outfitted with king sized beds with aircon and fan, flat screen TV, free Wi-Fi, fridge, mosquito screened windows and sliding doors, and have Western baths with hot water. Bar and restaurant on the premises. From ฿6,000. 
 Zodiac Seesun Resort (At the southern end of Sunrise Beach). Beachfront rooms with AC. ฿7,200-฿9,200. 
Stay safe[edit]
Precautions[edit]
Stonefish have been spotted and photographed in the waters of Ko Lipe. While the chances of getting stung are slim, you may want to consider protective footwear when swimming in the water.

Medical care[edit]
Lipe Hospital is next to the school on Sunrise Beach and has an English-speaking doctor. There are also several clinics on the island including Siam International Clinic Koh Lipe, Southern Andaman Medical Clinic, and NemoLipe that have English-speaking staff.

Connect[edit]
Free Wi-Fi is available at almost all resorts and bars/restaurants.

Go next[edit]
Ferries and speedboats as well as further bus and train connections can be booked online or at one of the travel agencies on the island. It's best to buy tickets as early as possible as transport can be fully-booked in the high season. If booking from an agency, make sure that the booking is confirmed with the operator.

Ko Lanta
Ko Muk
Ko Phi Phi
Ko Tarutao
Langkawi
Pak Bara
Phuket








This city travel guide to Ko Lipe has guide status. It has a variety of good, quality information including hotels, restaurants, attractions and travel details. Please contribute and help us make it a star!





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ko_Lipe&oldid=4850792"