

La Merced
Catarata Tirol
La Merced is a town in Southern Sierra, it is the capital of the Chanchamayo Province in the Junín Region, Peru.


Understand[edit]
La Merced is 750 meters above sea level between the towns of Tarma and Pichanaki.

Get in[edit]
Buses from Huancayo take about 4 hours and leave from the multi-company terminal on Av. Ferrocarril.

Get around[edit]
The town center is very walkable.
Mototaxis to most locations are S/1 (sol) per person during the day, a bit more at night.

See[edit]
La Merced is reasonably close to the waterfalls Catarata de Bayoz and Velo de la Novia, see the Pichanaki page for details.

 Banos Termales de Uchubamba (Take the road towards Uchubamba). Thermal pools. 
 Catarata Sanchirio (Take the road towards Oxapampa. Near San Luis de Shuaro). Waterfall. 
-11.1375-75.33141 Catarata del Tirol (17km from La Merced. About 5 km up a dirt road immediately after Puente San Ramon on the right hand side when travelling from Tarma to La Merced. 11° 08' 15 S 75° 19' 53 W). You must walk for about 15 minutes up a gorge to reach the waterfall, its a fairly easy walk up a well-made path. Adults S/1. 
 Catarata Tunquimayo (Near Vitoc. Take the road towards Uchubamba). Waterfall. 
-11.1725-75.45172 Ducha del Diablo (11° 10' 21 S  75° 27' 06 W). 
 Puente Colgante Kimiri. Suspension bridge made in 1901. 
 Santuario Nacional Pampa Hermosa. Tropical/subtropical jungle, waterfalls, Yungas. 
 Zoologico (10 min walking from the terminal, in direction of Oxapampa/Pichanaki). A big butterfly house and a few animals in very small cages. S/5. 
Do[edit]
Puente Kimiri, in the direction of Oxapampa/Pichanaki (45 min walking from the center). Cross it, then follow the red arrows 30 min until a small wood house and a river. There are 3 waterfalls here. On the right Las Reinas, you have to walk in the water. On the left Hanuman (by the river or other path going up), then Gondika further, by the river.
A variety of tours have hawkers in the central plaza in the morning until about 10:00.  Most of the companies offer the same options.

Perene Tour - this jungle overview tour is appropriate for all ages and abilities.  It includes 2 waterfalls (you can swim at the bottom), a "native village", a coffee processor, a boat ride, and a stop for lunch.  It runs about S/35.
Indiana Jones Tour - not the real name, but they will know what you are talking about.  This trip takes you up a creek bed with several waterfalls that you climb with a rope through the water.  At times you scale wet slippery rocks without a rope.  Good physical condition is highly recommended. Some groups also have 2 guides to help you up the waterfalls.  If you're nervous you may want to ask around for a 2-guide tour. S/25 per person.
Discoteca Kametsa Cafe Rock - A nightclub on the outskirts of town that is hopping on Saturday nights with a fun and friendly crowd.  Plays a heavily Latin mix.
Buy[edit]
Coffee and cocoa are grown locally not to mention lots of fruit. Art and craft made by the Ashaninkas make good souvenirs also.

Eat[edit]
Try an ice cream in Bio fresh (S/3 for 2 balls, just before the terminal, or in the mainplace but you can't sit)
Casa de Allen has good burgers in 3 sizes, flaming crepes with ice cream (a bit further than the Municipal Albergue los Peregrinos, Av Peru, 40 min walking from the center). Allen knows the area well, he can give you good information (to go on the rio for instance).
You can try local selva food in various locations around town, but do not try local animals meat such as zamaño, cutpe, sajino (all are some wild pigs), venado (deer), or fishes such as doncella or zungaro as many of these are endangered.
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Hostal Prince, 153 Jr. Arequipa, La Merced, ☏ +51 64  332063, reservas@hotelprince.com. Nice, clean rooms. Twin S/40. 
Connect[edit]
 Municipalidad Provincial de Chanchamayo. 
Go next[edit]
Atalaya The Emerald of Ucayali. Boats travelling downstream to Pucallpa.
Huancayo
Oxapampa (S/10, 1hr 40min)
Pichanaki
Satipo
Tarma - The Pearl of the Andes.
Villa Rica







This city travel guide to La Merced is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=La_Merced&oldid=3962063"