
Lakes Entrance is a town in East Gippsland where the Gippsland Lakes finally flow into the sea.  It is a major tourist destination, with swimming and boating being the major attractions, but many other attractions like mini-golf and paddle boats which cater to visitors.


Understand[edit]
The town has a beautiful locality - surrounded by water, lakes and kilometres of deserted ocean beaches.
However, like some other "seaside destinations", the town itself can tend to be a little tacky and run down. While not often attractive to New South Welsh people, it is the closest Victoria could offer on untouched sandy beaches.

Get in[edit]
Lakes Entrance is on the Princes Hwy (A1). Coaches meet the trains to Bairnsdale from Melbourne  Coaches down the coast from Sydney and Canberra also pass through Lakes Entrance.

Get around[edit]
Lakes Entrance has paths and lanes which makes popular areas within the town accessible by foot or bike. 
Some areas with paths or lanes for bikes include:

Esplanade, there is a wide footpath along the lake. Keep in mind that it is prohibited to ride bikes, scooters or skateboards over the footbridge leading to the Ninety Mile Beach.
Marine Parade
Eastern Beach, the footpath leading to Eastern Beach Road is bike friendly, and Eastern Beach Road has a bike lane. This will take you to Eastern Beach.
See[edit]
 Griffith's Shell Museum, 125 Esplanade, ☏ +61 3 5155 1538. Giant octopus on the roof, fantastic for children, very extensive collection of shells and a great kitch gift shop. 
 Riviera Trading Post. Second hand furniture, massive barn for browsing bric a brac furniture, marine, second hand outdoor camping fishing, diving, boating gear tools and equipment. 
Do[edit]
Ocean Beach swimming.  Cross the main footbridge across the inlet in the centre of town cross the sandhill, and you will be at the main ocean beach area.  A little further north along the road is Eastern Beach, which is patrolled between Christmas and Australia Day.
Paddle Boats and Catamarans - for hire directly opposite the footbridge.
Boat hire
Lake swimming.  The jellyfish can be a little larger in the inlet here, but there is an enclosure for swimming - best at higher tides.
Eat[edit]
 Tres Amigos Mexican Restaurant, 521 The Esplanade, ☏ +61 3 5155 2977. Not many tables, so it pays to book during the summer season. 
Lakes Entrance Bowls Club, barefoot bowls in summer, cnr Rowe and Bulmer street. Fresh and friendly cool in summer. 03 51 551410
Lakes Entrance RSL, upstairs, novelty mural and military display's throughout
Sleep[edit]
 Carmel Holiday Flat's, 9 Orme Street, ☏ +61 2 5155 1886. Charming, 1950s style fishing shacks, central locale, two bedroom, bathroom, kitchen, TV/radio, separate laundry, relaxed casual and friendly local owner. $90/night. (updated Nov 2021)
Connect[edit]
Most of Lakes Entrance has celluar coverage from most national telecommunication companies such as Telstra, Optus and Vodafone.
As with any Telstra Payphone in Australia, Standard National calls (that is, within Australia) can be made for free using a payphone. Some of the locations where a payphone can be found and used are: 

Myers Street, just outside of Foodworks.
Centrepoint Arcade, across the road from the front of the Centrepoint Arcade. There is also a public bathroom here.
Lakes Entrance Recreation and Camping Reserve, directly at the front of the entrance.
United Petroleum, on Princes Highway. This is the closest payphone to Eastern Beach Road.
Go next[edit]
Bairnsdale has a lot to offer for those interested in interior Gippsland cities and looking for a quieter, less visited destination


Routes through Lakes Entrance




Eden ← Orbost ←

 N  S 

→ Bairnsdale → Sale








This city travel guide to Lakes Entrance is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Lakes_Entrance&oldid=4775766"