
Lakselv is a small town in Finnmark at the very top of Norway in the municipality Porsanger.


Understand[edit]
The area is as far north as the northern coast of Alaska and most of Siberia. It is also north of most of the settlements on Greenland. Thanks to the Gulfstream the area is a green oasis in spite of its physical location on 70° north.

Get in[edit]
70°2′52″N 24°57′4″EMap of Lakselv
By plane[edit]
70.06666724.9738891 Lakselv Airport, Banak (LKL  IATA). has daily connections to Tromsø, Kirkenes and Alta, operated by Widerøe. During the summer Norwegian Air Shuttle operates a flight to Oslo. It's actually the northernmost airport on the European mainland capable of handling large jet aircraft.   
By  bus[edit]
Veolia operates a few buses out of, or stopping in, Lakselv. 105 runs daily between Alta and Kirkenes. 305 connects daily to Honningsvåg near the Nordkapp (European north cape), and 416 connects to Karasjok in conjugation with the flights from the airport.
Connection from Rovaniemi and Helsinki, Finland is operated by Eskelisen Lapinlinjat.

By car[edit]
Three rental agencies offer reasonably priced rental cars or minibuses. Contact the tourist information for updated information.

Get around[edit]
To get around in the municipality Porsanger you will need a car or bus. In Lakselv you can rent both.
Hertz, Avis and Lakselv Bilutleie are present in the centre of the town.

See[edit]
 Trollholmsund (guided tours). The dolomite trolls are true wonders of nature. An old Sami myth tells the story of how the trolls were turned into stone. 
 Silfar Canyon (guided tours). Experience the beauty, see the crystal clear water run over the whitegreysish dolomite. Silfar Canyon is one of the largest ones in Northern Europe. 
 Roddines Nature Reserve (guided tours). At Rodddines you can see a typical and beautiful example of raised beach ridges made by the sea in receding altitudes as the land gradually rose after the last iceage. 
 Stabbursnes Nature Reserve. Stabbursnes Nature Reserve is established in order to  protect a wetland area of great botanical and ornithological interest. Stabbursnes is a large delta of fluvial deposits. On the delta surface there are several fossil river tracks and ancient shore lines, which document the gradual upheaval of the land after the last glacial period. The reserve has international importance as a resting and feeding area for many species of migrating wetland birds. (RAMSAR area).In the migrating period some species are very numerous, especially Knot (Calidris canutus), Dunlin (Calidris alpina) and Bar-tailed Godwit (Limosa lapponica). A great part of the Norwegian population of the rare species Lesser White-fronted Goose (Anser erythropus) rests in the area during migrating periods. The reserve is also an important moulting area for many species of ducks, and a winter habitat for Eider (Somateria mollissima).Within the protected area we find some of the largest salt and brackish marshes in Northern Norway with many arctic plant communities.In a part of the reserve, the Valdak Marshes (Valdak myra), all traffic is prohibited from Maand from August 10th to September 20th. Elsewhere you may move around freely within the reserve. 
Within the whole reserve it is prohibited:
To destroy the natural environment, including the plant life. Collecting berries and mushrooms is, however, allowed.
To kill, catch or hunt birds and other animals
To let loose dogs.
To camp, raise tents or camouflage arrangements.
 Kistrand Church (E6 at Kistrand 55 km North of Lakselv). One of the few churches in Finnmark to survive World War II. The church was inaugurated in 1856. 
 Lasarettmoen (guided tours) (Skoganvarre 27 km South of Lakselv), ☏ +47 97412357. The marked trail leads you to the remains of one of the largest World War II field hospitals in Finnmark. Be sure to buy an infofolder from the touristinformation to make the most of your trip to Lasarettmoen. 
 Porsanger Museum (guided tours) (Skoganvarre 27 km South of Lakselv direction Karasjok)). The exhibition in Skoganvarre include World War II history, local culture and history along with a special exhibition on the Sami sjaman Johan Kaaven. Combine your trip to the museum with a walk along the path through the World War II field hospital in the area. 
Do[edit]
 Northern Light safari, ☏ +47 97412357, booking@porsangerfjordtravel.no. Trips outside Lakselv to see the Northern Lights. More information at Porsangerfjord Travel. 
 Salmon and trout (guided tours), ☏ +47 97412357, booking@porsangerfjordtravel.no. The rivers in the county of Porsanger are rich in salmon and sea trout. All rivers are extremely beautiful and still inexpensive compared to other rivers in Norway. Stabburselva is known for its beautiful surroundings and excellent salmon fly-fishing. Lakselva is known for large salmon, and Børselva is well known for its crystal clear water and beautiful surroundings. The municipality Porsanger has three of the best salmon rivers in Norway. There are over 4000 lakes for freshwater fishing. Fishing is allowed in Finnmark, but be sure to check out what rules apply. 
 Husky safari, ☏ +47 97412357, booking@porsangerfjordtravel.no. A dogsled safari under the Northern Light. 
Eat[edit]
 [formerly dead link] Lakselv Hotell, ☏ +47 78465400. The hotel is situated on a hill with great view of Porsangerfjord. The hotel is located 1.5 km from Lakselv center and 3 km from North Cape Airport is an ideal base for excursions locally and to the North Cape and Karasjok. From the hotel there is a marked hikingtrail in scenic areas with good opportunities for fishing and outdoor activities. 
 Gobiten, ☏ +47 78464301. A wide range of fastfood, pizzas and local food. 
 Senterkafeen. A cafeteria inside the shopping mall (Varesenter) Banaksenteret. Coffee, cakes, baguettes and some hot dishes. 
 Åstedet, ☏ +47 78461377. Serve pizza, pasta, beef, lamb, pork and dishes with chicken. They also have seafood, traditional Norwegian food and local specialities. You will also find the traditional reindeermeat. 
Sleep[edit]
 [formerly dead link] Lakselv Hotell, Karasjokveien, ☏ +47 78 46 54 00, post@lakselvhotell.no. 
 [dead link] Porsanger Vertshus, ☏ +47 78461377. A guesthouse in the middle of Lakselv. 
 Stabbursdalen Resort, ☏ +47 78464760. Stabbursdalen Resort is close to Stabbursdalen National Park and Stabbursnes Nature Reserve. The area is the northernmost border for many species of plants, birds and insects. The park has excellent trails for hikers that want to experience striking arctic wildlife in the northernmost pine forest in the world 
 [dead link] Bungalåven, ☏ +47 95778211. Bungalåven is an old farm house th at housed animals and people. In 1948, Ottar, one of the owners, was born in the house alongside cows and sheep. Since 1968, animals have not been allowed in the house. In 1995 the house was renovated and opened for guests. They come from all over the world to fish, hunt and enjoy other arctic mountain adventures. The kitchen chef prepares a varied menu of delicious traditional meals, such as Arctic char, Arctic trout, Arctic wild salmon, Arctic sea fish, reindeer and local sheep. Bungalåven has its own distinctive atmosphere. Lonely Planet has recommended Bungalåven for many years -and they still do. 
 Lakselv Hostel, ☏ +47 90745342. The hostel is located 7 km from Lakselv. Lakselv means "the river of salmon". The opportunities for fishing are excellent. In the picturesque surroundings there are also good opportunities for hiking and hunting. 
 Lazzzy Place, ☏ +47 97705035. Lazzzy Place is a small cosy guesthouse in the center of Lakselv. 
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]


Routes through Lakselv




Narvik ← Alta ←  to Nordkapp ←

 N  S 

→ Karasjok → Kirkenes








This city travel guide to Lakselv is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Lakselv&oldid=4894418"