
Larkana is the fourth largest city in Sindh. It serves as the HQ of the district of Larkana. It is largely known throughout Pakistan for its association with the Bhutto family.


Understand[edit]
The historical name of Larkana until the year 1901 was Chandka. In August 2000, Larkana celebrated the hundredth anniversary of its founding.
In the Sindhi language, the name of the city is pronounced 'Larkano'.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
The closest airport is 30 km away in Mohenjo-daro, from where you can get direct flights from Karachi. Pakistan's national carrier PIA operates direct and non-direct flights from Karachi to Mohenjo-daro. Direct flights run four times a week and take one hour, while the non-direct flights make a stop at Sukkur Airport and operate only on Fridays.

By train[edit]
Larkana railway station serves the city. There are two trains each day briefly stop at Larkana railway station: the Bolan Mail is run between Karachi and Quetta and has economical and air-conditioned class, while the Khushal Khan Khattak Express is run between Karachi and Peshawar and has only economical class.

27.548668.20961 Larkana Junction railway station.   (updated Jan 2021)
By bus[edit]
Larkana is on National Highway N-55 (the Indus Highway). The 1,264-km-long N-55 runs from Karachi to Peshawar and one can easily get a bus for Larkana from cities situated along the highway.
If coming from Karachi, there are A/C and non-A/C buses between Karachi and Larkana, which can be found at "Blue Lines bus station" (Dr Daud Pota Rd) near the Cantonment railway station in Karachi. A ride on bus from Karachi may take 10-hour-long journey and seat in an air-condition bus may cost around Rs 800.
From Sukkur, buses for Larkana may take 2-3 hours.

Get around[edit]
There are plenty of taxis, buses, vans and motorcycle rickshaws in city.

See and do[edit]
Most people come to visit Mohenjo-daro, which is thoroughly covered in its own article.

 Jhoker Jo Daro. Another archaelological site in the district. 
27.69472268.33751 Mausoleum of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto (Bhutto family mausoleum), Garhi Khuda Bakhsh (28 km away from Larkana city). The mazar is notable for containing the graves of the Bhutto family members. People from all over Pakistan come to this mazar throughout the year.   
 Sukarno Tower. Built in the middle of the town, this monument was presented by the Indonesian president Sukarno on visit to Larkana. 
There is another monument which was given by the founder of modern Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, on a visit to Larkana.
 Zulfiqar Bagh. Take an evening stroll in the park. 
Buy[edit]
There are a couple of bazaars in the town. Popular among locals are Khataan market, which sells pickle flavours, Sonarki market, and Machi market.
You may buy some good quality Sindhi caps and traditional Ajrak here at affordable prices.

Eat and drink[edit]
The most popular restaurants are Al Mansoor Hotel and Restaurant, Sambara Inn Hotel and Restaurant. There is also a outlet of KFC on Station Rd. Most hotels mentioned below in the 'Sleep' section run a restaurant that is open for non-staying guests as well.

Sleep[edit]
There are several hotels in the city, including:

 Asia, Station Rd, ☏ +92 74 4055601. A good hotel with A/C rooms, free Wi-Fi Internet, and a restaurant. Rs 3,000 for singles. 
 Paris Inn, Station Rd. This hotel is yet another good place to stay in town. Rs 2,000 for singles. 
 Green Palace Hotel. Reasonably clean and spacious room along the main stretch. Among the cheapest options in the area. Rs 1,200 for singles, 2,500 for doubles. 
Stay safe[edit]
Go next[edit]
Mohenjo-daro — this ancient city is an important archaeological site in Pakistan.
Mothparja







This city travel guide to Larkana is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Larkana&oldid=4872297"