
Lech and Zürs am Arlberg is a ski resort in Austria. It is reputed to be one of the finest ski areas in the world.


Get in[edit]
Swiss and British Airways fly directly from London Heathrow and London City to Zürich. From Zürich a 2-3 hour coach or taxi ride with Arlberg Express takes you directly to Zurs and Lech.  You can alternatively take the train from the airport to Langen, and then a short drive with the taxi to the resorts. Ryanair also flies to the nearer Friedrichshafen airport from Stansted. Furthermore, Innsbruck Airport is on an one and a half hour drive from the ski resort.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
The rich and (wannabe) famous. Royalty. Lambos and Bentleys with snow chains and above all the awesome Arlberg mountains.

Do[edit]
As one of Austria's largest ski resorts Lech offers a high quality skiing experience. Queuing might happen during ski school starting hours but normally you don't queue for more than 5 minutes anywhere. There are a number of high level ski schools available for all types of skiers. The Arlberg is the birthplace of the ski schools. There is ski terrain for everybody, from the beginner to the alpine tourer. Best skiing though is in Zurs, (lift linked, but a sleepy place to stay).
Lech-Zurs hosts the world's longest ski race known as "Der Weisse Ringe" (The White Ring) crossing over 22 km of pistes. Any well acquainted skier can try the run out for themselves. Though it may be started in any of the three towns (Lech, Zurs or Zug), most start in Lech at the Rufikopfbahn which connects over to Zurs. The run is very popular and well illustrated maps can be found just about anywhere.

Bench on a hiking trail above Lech
During the Summer months the area is a very popular hiking and wellness destination. It is not unusual to stumble across fossils and other interesting geological finds whilst hiking. The "Sea of Stone" hike in particular has plenty of fossil finds as you are literally walking over an ancient coral reef. For those more interested in a trekking-type vacation, one may hike atop the peaks from hut to hut (with cheap dorm-style accommodation and delicious traditional Vorarlberger/Tyrolean dishes). Rock climbing, canyoning, repelling, mountain biking, etc. are all available. In Lech, these activities are all available to children during their day camps. As from June 2016 there is a golf course in Zug, district of Lech. 

Buy[edit]
Mink, diamonds, Cartier, Patek Philippe

 Stroltz department store, Dorf 116 & Zürs 205. The "Harrods of Lech" deserves a visit during your stay. 
 Huber, Dorf 115. A renowned jeweler from Lichtenstein which has a branch in Lech for over 20 years. 
 Sagmeister. The first address for the fashionable with five boutiques in Lech 
Eat[edit]
Many of the hotels offer "half-board" accommodation and will provide breakfast and the evening meal.  This can be good value if you don't mind returning to the hotel to eat.
Over 100 restaurants and inns in Lech and Zürs offer everything from international to regional and rustic cuisine. The majority of restaurants is in Lech. For gourmets Lech has 14 toque-awarded restaurants to choose from.

Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Hotel Arlberg. This 5 star hotel is another popular and stylish (but maintaining traditional design) choice in Lech. 
 Hotel Aurelio. If you have no budget, and want supreme style, and an outstanding spa on the slopes, this newly opened hotel has direct access to the main mountain in Lech. 
 Chalet Hotel Bentleys Hotel. This boutique hotel, located in Zürs, is the newest five star hotel of this ski resort. It combines a traditional, rustic style with exclusivity and design. 
 Hotel Goldener Berg, Oberlech 117 A-6764 Oberlech am Arlberg, ☏ +43 5583-22050, info@goldenerberg.at. 
 The Kristiania. A pricey four star boutique hotel. This hotel combines traditional decoration with contemporary art work, and is a 5 minute walk from Lech's main street. 
 Lech Lodge - Alpine Residence, Omesberg 700. A luxury residence comprising two private chalets with four apartments, offering everything from personal assistant to private spa. 
 Hotel Sonnenburg, Oberlech 55, Lech am Arlberg, ☏ +43  5583 2147, hotel@sonnenburg.at. 
 Post Lech Arlberg, Dorf 11, ☏ +43 5583 2206, info@postlech.com. Check-in: 16:00, check-out: 11:00. (updated Apr 2020)
Go next[edit]
If you have time, visit the nearby, but crowded ski-resort of St Anton. It's just 20 minutes on the bus from Lech. Take the telecabin to the top of the Valluga, and enjoy the scenery!

St. Anton
St. Christoph







This city travel guide to Lech and Zürs am Arlberg is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Lech_and_Zürs_am_Arlberg&oldid=4642109"