
Les Andelys is a town on the river Seine in the Upper Normandy region of northern France, some 30 km northeast of Évreux. As the name might suggest, Les Andelys is divided into its two original components: Grand-Andely and Petit-Andely.


Understand[edit]
Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
From Paris:
Option 1: Take the A86, then the A15, towards Cergy. Continue on the N14 towards Rouen. Exit after Les Thilliers-en-Vexin towards Les Andelys.
Option 2: Take the A13 towards Rouen. Exit at Gaillon and go towards Les Andelys.
From Rouen:
Option 1: Take the N14 towards Paris. Exit after Grainville Option 1: Les Andelys.
Option 2: Take the A13 towards Paris. Exit at Gaillon and follow towards Les Andelys.

By train[edit]
The nearest SNCF train stations are Vernon and Gaillon Aubevoye, both on the Paris-Rouen line. For information call +33 (0)8 36 67 68 69.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
49.2381281.4027531 Château Gaillard. This fortress was dreamed of, skillfully designed and built by the fiery Richard I of England, feudal Duke of Normandy, better known as Richard the Lionheart. Like its creator, the stronghold of Les Andelys calls to mind strength, power, invincibility. Yet, the virtually impregnable fortress would live only a few years, just like Richard, who was too confident in his talents as a warrior.   
49.24221.39982 Petit Andely Saint Sauveur Church. Building Chateau-Gaillard required the presence of over three thousands workers in les Andelys. The Saint-Sauveur church was built for them. Works started in 1198 and were finished four years later, in 1202, that is why the church has an outstanding unity.  
49.24751.42223 Grand Andely Notre Dame Collegiate Church. This is the very place where the Queen Clotilde, wife of Clovis, founded the first Norman abbey in 511. The construction of the present church started in the 13th century and spread over a period of 500 years.  
 Sainte Clotilde Miraculous Spring. Sainte Clotilde was the wife of Clovis, the first Christian king of the Franks. According to the legend, the spring appeared during the digging of foundations. Upon Sainte Clotilde prayers, water would have turned into wine to quench the thirst of the builders! 
 Half timbered house and belfry of la Madeleine, 93 rue de la Sous-Prefecture. 
49.1611111.3297224 [dead link] Château de Gaillon, Allée de l'Ermitage, 27600 Gaillon (15 km from Les Andelys, via the D313), ☏ +33 2 32 53 86 40. W–M 09:30–12:30, 14:00–18:00; Closed Tu. Beautiful white Renaissance château, that is nowadays distinctly battered-looking, of which the gatehouse is the most impressive retained element. Adults: €4, children over 6 €3, under 6 free. Pay an extra €2 p.p. for a guided tour..   (updated Oct 2017)
Do[edit]
 A Walk on the Seine Banks. The town of Les Andelys lies in a tight bend of the Seine. The valley has been shaped by the river, forming white cliffs. A walk on the riverside offers beautiful views on the ruined castle Chateau-Gaillard, the old houses of Petit-Andely and the Seine valley. 
 A Boat tour on the Seine. Liberte Seine offers to explore the beautiful waterscapes of the Seine in the surroundings of Les Andelys, just as you like it. The boat has a maximum capacity of 6 passengers. It is perfect for a couple, a family or a party of friends. You can either choose one of the circuits of 45 min to 2 hr 45 min, or customise your tour, priced according to the duration. 
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
 La Chaine d Or. French gastronomic restaurant listed in most major French restaurant guides. The building dates back from 1751 and is in a charming setting along The Seine river in the Petit-Andely centre with its half-timbered houses and its 12th century church. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Hotel[edit]
 La Chaine d Or. A 3-star hotel restaurant dating back from 1751 located in a charming setting along The Seine river in the Petit-Andely center with its half-timbered houses and its 12th century church. The French gastronomic restaurant is listed in most major French restaurant guides. 
 Andelys Hotel. A 2-star, modestly priced, clean, comfortable and friendly city centre hotel. (No restaurant). 
4-star and 3-star hotels in the surroundings [1]
B&B[edit]
 La Villa Alienor. At the foot of the stronghold Chateau-Gaillard, Nadine and Eric took up the challenge to turn a former hotel into a guest house. It was built in the 18th century as a post house. It has kept its horseshoe shape opening onto the River Seine, and its walls covered by virginia creeper. The five enlarged bedrooms are still lined along a corridor, but their attractive and imaginative decoration is indeed the one of a B&B. 
 La Haye Gaillard. This farm in business (no animal) is located in the countryside amid wheat, flax and colza fields cultivated by the owner. It was built in the 19th century by an engineer of Ferdinand de Lesseps, the creator of the Suez Canal, and has been renewed. It is a perfect place to stay if you are looking for a very quiet environment in the countryside. 
 Les Burons. This B&B is located on the highs of Les Andelys. It is surrounded by a large flowered garden. The place is very quiet, fields and countryside begin just behind the estate. 
Self-catering[edit]
 La Berverie. This old brick and half-timbered mansion house is in the centre of the old town of Les Andelys and its garden is overlooking the river Seine. Walking distance from Petit. 
 Camping Lisle de Trois Rois. A reasonably (7 ha, 300 pitches) large camping/caravan/motor home site on the edge of Petit Andelys. It has the usual sanitation blocks, electricity and chemical disposal points. It also has a bar and snack restaurant, a petanque court, a children's play area and a swimming pool. It has pitches on the Seine and on a small lake. It is situated adjacent to Les Andelys bridge over the Seine, within easy walking distance of Petit Andelys. 
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Les Andelys is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.








Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Les_Andelys&oldid=4805716"