
Lismore is a town in the Northern Rivers region of New South Wales
For the island in Scotland, see Isle of Lismore


Understand[edit]
A bit inland from the Pacific Motorway between Sydney and Brisbane. Lismore is known as the “Rainbow Region” which describes the richness and cultural diversity of the area. It is on the edge of several tourist drives and world-heritage national parks.
The town made the national headlines when it was damaged by severe flooding in 2022, with about 4000 properties damaged, and as of March 2024, many houses are still in a state of despair. There have even been plans to completely move the town to higher ground.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
Coolangatta Airport (OOL IATA) — has domestic flights and international flights from New Zealand, Malaysia, and Japan. It often has cheaper flights and cheaper car hire than Lismore. And is a 90 minute drive to Lismore.
Ballina Airport (BNK IATA) — there are flights from Sydney and Melbourne. With Qantas, Jetstar, Virgin Australia and REX covering the sector. And is a 45 minute drive to Lismore.
-28.828056153.261 Lismore Regional Airport (LSY  IATA) (is only a 5 minute drive away from the city centre with taxi, limousine and hire car services available). There's friendly service, plenty of free parking during daylight hours, secure paid parking overnight, free wireless internet access, a meeting room and a spacious, air-conditioned terminal with refreshments, light meals and gourmet coffee available. Lismore is serviced by Regional Express (REX) with 52 flights per week between Sydney and Lismore. (Temporarily suspended)   
By train[edit]
 NSW TrainLink, ☏ +61 13 22 32. Services are available from Sydney to Casino, with a connecting coach from Casino to Lismore. (updated Jun 2024)
By car[edit]
Located on the Bruxner Highway and easily accessed by car, Lismore is within a 2.5 hour drive of Brisbane and about 9 hours from Sydney.

By bus[edit]
Several coach and bus operators provide services to Lismore from major centres throughout Australia and the region.

Greyhound
Premier Motor Service
Get around[edit]
Northern Rivers Buslines
Wallers Bus Co.
Nimbin-Byron Bay Shuttle Bus
Taxi
See[edit]
Lismore is a more residential town than its coastal neighbours.  It is surrounded by very pretty coastal hinterland, and it is worthwhile taking one of the scenic drives around the area. It is in some ways the administrative centre of the Northern Rivers region. It has the main hospital, a fairly large courthouse, as well as a university and a shopping centre. 
The Wilsons River runs through town; however, like many inland rivers in Australia, it is brown in colour due to sediment, so some people may not wish to swim in it.  The water is safe for swimming.  Hector, the freshwater crocodile, once escaped from a travelling show and made his home in the river, but he hasn't been sighted since the floods of 1974. 
If you don't feel like swimming, there is a riverside park by the bridge.

Do[edit]
The rainbow train at Heritage Park
Art & Music: Lismore boasts an abundance of artists and musicians, with many pop-up galleries in shop windows, graffiti artistry like the Back Alley Gallery and of course the Lismore Regional Art Gallery which hosts locals and  many famous artists' exhibitions throughout the year. These galleries are all part of the cafe and cultures trail created by Lismore Tourism to highlight our regions greatest assets. The C&C Trail begins at the visitor information centre and follows an easy path around the CBD (Central Business District) including the Regional Art Gallery, Historical Museum, many architectural displays in the form of old buildings (some over 100 years old), Back Alley Gallery (Graffiti Art at its best!) and some of the numerous cafes and restaurants that feed all the hungry travellers.
For the kids there are numerous activities available to keep them occupied and if you happen to be here during school holidays why not drop into the visitor information centre and pick up a school holiday pack full of great things for the kids to do.

Heritage Park Miniature Train and Children's Playground, situated next door to the Lismore Visitor Information Centre has state of the art play equipment guaranteed to excite even the most bored child. And if thats not enough then they can try out the miniature train that runs around the park for 2 laps, costing $2 child and $8 group tickets, suitable for all ages even the big kids. The Train is open Saturday and Sundays 10AM - 4PM, Thursdays and Public Holidays 10AM - 2PM, and at varied times during school holidays. The playground is open all hours with barbeque facilities, toilets are located underneath the visitor centre and are all accessible by wheelchair.
Skate Parks: Lismore has 2 skate parks for the skateboarding enthusiast: Riverside Park/Skate Park located in Victoria street (overlooking the Wilsons River) contains a large streetscape, fun boxes, grind poles and steel half pipes. Goonellabah Skate Park located in Oliver Avenue (Goonellabah) features ledges, a small bowl, flat bars and a pole jam.
Lismore Roller Skating and Putt-Putt Golf
Playquest
Koala Care Centre
Buy[edit]
Lismore CBD[edit]
Lismore Shopping Square:
Markets[edit]
Lismore is right at the heart of some of the best local markets you will find in the whole of Australia. Which ever day you are in the Lismore area there is bound to be a market on somewhere in the close proximity.

Lismore Farmers Market: great for fresh and local produce in the area. Held at Lismore Showground, North Lismore; every Saturday from 8AM - 11AM.
Lismore Produce Market: come along and sample some of the regions local produce direct from the growers and makers themselves. Every Thursday evening from 3:30PM - 6:30PM in Magellan Street, Lismore.
Lismore Organic Market: [1] for everyone who likes their produce fresh and pesticide free. Every Tuesday 7:30AM - 11AM at the Lismore Showground, North Lismore.
Lismore Car Boot Market: the modern day version of a flea market complete with second hand goods (including vintage, retro and antique), live music, buskers, local produce, food vendors (pasta, curries, pancakes, hot dogs, coffee and cake, and many more). Held on the 1st and 3rd Sunday of every month from 8AM - 2PM underneath Lismore Shopping Square, Uralba Street, Lismore. This is an all weather event.
Lismore Makers Market:
Eat[edit]
Capellos Cafe
Goanna Bakery & Cafe
Henry's Bakery Cafe
Fire in the Belly
Indian Mumtaj
Thai Satay Hut
Miss Lizzie's Restaurant
The Loft
Tommy's Tavern
Terrace Bar
Banzai Japanese Restaurant
The Bank Cafe
Dragonfly Cafe
Peppertree Kitchen
Lismore Pie Cart
Mecca Cafe
La Baracca Espresso Bar and Trattoria
Drink[edit]
Mary Gilhooleys Irish Pub
Lismore Workers Club
The Richmond Hotel
The Rous Hotel
The Tattersalls Hotel
Hilltop Tavern
Sleep[edit]
Hotels & Motels[edit]
The New Olympic Hotel
The Gateway Motel & Restaurant
The Bounty Motel
Aza Motel
Dawson Motor Inn
Centrepoint Motel
Lismore City Motor Inn
Karinga Motel
Sisley's Motel
The Lismore Wilson Motel
Invercauld House
Caravan & Camping[edit]
Lismore Centra Tourist Park
Lismore Palms Caravan Park
Roadrunner Caravan Park
Lismore Lake Holiday Park
Retreats, Hideaways and Bed & Breakfasts[edit]
Havan's Eco Retreat
Anna's Retreat
Imogen's Farm
Melville House
PJ's Bed & Breakfast
Terania Creek Bed & Breakfast
The Shed
Self-contained[edit]
Anna's Retreat
Suzanne's Hideaway
Valleydale Cottage
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
Nimbin
Eltham
Nightcap National Park
Rocky Creek Dam
Border Ranges National Park
Wollumbin/Mt Warning National Park
The Channon Craft Market: [2] being one of the best and longest running (30 years old) with over 250 stalls each month featuring a wide variety of arts, crafts, hippie handy crafts, second hand goods, children's activities (candle making, bouncy castle, donkey and miniature horse rides), local produce, live music & buskers, and alfresco dining that will set your mouth watering from breakfast all the way up to afternoon tea. The Channon Craft Market is held on the second Sunday of every month from 9AM - 3PM at Coronation Park, The Channon. Weather permitting.





This city travel guide to Lismore is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Lismore_(New_South_Wales)&oldid=4889082"