

Fort Point Lighthouse
Liverpool, the "Port of the Privateers", is an historic town in Queens County on the South Shore of Nova Scotia.


Understand[edit]
Established in 1759, Liverpool was once known as Ogomikigeak (dry sandy place) and Ogukegeok (place of departure) by the Mi'kmaq.  Samuel de Champlain later named the harbour Port Rossignol after the captain who was using the harbour for fur trading.
The expulsion of the Acadians set the stage for New England Planters to found Liverpool, naming the town after Lord Liverpool, head of the Board of Trade and Plantations.  Initially sympathetic to the cause of the American Revolution, residents eventually "rebelled against the rebellion" after American privateers repeatedly attacked local shipping, and the town.  The golden age of the Liverpool Privateer had begun.  During the remainder of the American Revolution, through the Napoleonic Wars and the War of 1812, Liverpool privateer vessels preyed on enemy ships in the West Indies and North Atlantic.
An important harbour for the export of forestry products, ship building and fishing, Liverpool enjoyed a comfortable existence until the mid-19th century.  The new star of the ship building world, steel, ruined Liverpool's wooden ship industry and the failure of two local banks crippled the local economy.
Prohibition in the United States allowed Liverpool to become a rum running centre in the 1920s.  The town's fortunes were further bolstered with the 1929 completion of the Mersey Paper Company in Brooklyn and a new era dawned in the town.
Today Liverpool is part of the larger Region of Queens Municipality and enjoys a thriving festival season.  Surrounded by quiet, unspoiled white sand beaches and protected wilderness areas, Liverpool makes a great year round hub for travellers looking for good food, culture and nature activities.

Get in[edit]
Liverpool is 90 minutes away from Yarmouth and from Halifax on Highway 103 on the South Shore of Nova Scotia.

By car[edit]
From Halifax, get on Highway 102 North (Bayers Rd.), then take Exit 1A toward Highway 3/Highway 333/Peggy's Cove/South Shore/Yarmouth. Merge onto Highway 103 West, then get off at Exit 19. For a longer, more scenic drive, take the Lighthouse Route (Highway 3), which goes along the coast and directly through Liverpool.

By bus[edit]
 Trius Tours, ☏ +1-877-566-1567. offers daily bus service between Halifax and Yarmouth 
Get around[edit]
The war memorial out side the old city hall
While there is no public transportation in Liverpool, many attractions are accessible by foot.  There are several taxi companies in the area.

 BJ's Taxi, ☏ +1 902-350-1848. 
 Grezaud's Taxi, ☏ +1 902-354-5585. 
 J & M Taxi, ☏ +1 902-350-0583. 
See[edit]
 Fort Point Lighthouse. Built in 1855, it was here that brave Liverpudlians defended their town and trade from all manners of privateers and aggressors. Later in times of peace, the lighthouse cast a welcoming light, bidding safe entry to the harbour. Maritime and privateering history is enacted by costumed interpreters. Visitors can watch a presentation by the son of a previous lightkeeper, enjoy the tranquil, tree lined picnic park with a scenic view of Coffin Island Lighthouse, or browse in the gift shop. Lighthouse open mid-May to mid-October. 
 The Old Burial Ground (at the corner of Old Bridge Street and Main Street in downtown Liverpool). The history of this first burial ground for the town is depicted in a series of interpretive panesl located throughout. Burials range from before 1760 to the last recorded burial in 1894 with many headstones for infants and mothers who died during childbirth. 
 Milton Blacksmith Shop, 351 West Street, Milton, ☏ +1 902-354-2550. Open June to mid-October. A former working forge situated in a restored 1903 Smithy shop located by the falls on the Mersey River. View the operational forge, the ox sling or the displays on horseshoeing plus wood and metalworking. The museum also boasts numerous photos of historic Milton. 
Do[edit]
Kejimkujik National Park - Seaside.  Watch the seals basking on the rocks. Locals call the National Park "Keji" for short.
Birders can flock to St Catherine's River Road in the Port Joli area.  This road, off Hwy 3 west of Liverpool, provides viewpoints across the tidal mudflats.  The endangered Piping Plover can be found on beaches in this area.  Please respect signed nesting areas and nesting enclosures.  The beach is closed during nesting season.
Hank Snow Country Music Centre - live music on Wednesday afternoons in July and August at the old Railway Station.
Dip your paddles in one of the hundreds of lakes around the County.  Hike the wilderness in the surrounding areas.  Cast a line and catch a smallmouth bass.  Take a bike ride along our trails.  Queens County has one of the highest percentages of protected wilderness parks and nature reserves in Nova Scotia.  Canoe, kayak and bicycle rentals available at Liverpool Adventure Outfitters (+1 902 354-2702 in Liverpool, +1 902 682-5253 at Kejimkujik National Park and National Historic Site of Canada).
Privateer Days.  Join the party in July. Fireworks, music, crafts, historic tours and encampment, and graveyard tours all pay tribute to the town's rich heritage.
Perkins House Museum.  Perkins House is the oldest house in the Nova Scotia Museum collection.  This charming example of a Cape Cod was built in 1766 for Simeon Perkins, a native of Connecticut.  He came to Nova Scotia in 1762 during the Planter migration, participated in privateering, and soon became one of Liverpool's leading citizens.  Among the many features of this graceful old home is the Perkins Diary, Simeon's 40-year testimonial to colonial life in Liverpool.  Interactive ghost holograms are the latest feature in this must-see!  Open June 1 to October 15
Queens County Museum, Built in 1980, this museum is next the Perkins House Museum and houses documents and artifacts relating to the natural and human history of Queens.  The Thomas Raddall Research Centre for family history also operates within the museum, housing the early proprietors township records from 1759 leading to Mayflower and Empire Loyalist descendants and a Black History exhibit.  Open year round
The Rossignol Cultural Centre is a 24,000 sq ft multi-faceted complex of museums and galleries housed in a restored school.  Hosting a Folk Art Museum, Apothecary Museum, Trappers Cabin, Wildlife Art Gallery, English Board Room and the world's only Outhouse Museum, this centre offers hours of informative and educational entertainment.  Open May 15-October 15.
[The Sherman Hines Museum of Photography] is the only one of its kind east of Montreal and features four galleries and a permanent collection of photographs by prominent Canadian photographers.  Open May 15-October 15
Thomas Raddall Provincial Park covers over 1600 acres just across the harbour from Keji Seaside and has an interesting array of habitats.  The wooded areas are home to many songbirds, osprey, eagles, deer, snowshoe hare and coyotes, while the lakes and streams find mink, otter and beaver.  Moose and black bears frequent the bogs and fens and shorebirds abound on the secluded white sand beaches.  Particularly beautiful in the Autumn.  Named after one of Canada's most popular authorsw:Thomas_Head_Raddall, Thomas Raddall Provincial Park offers wooded campsites, walking and bicycle trails and historic sites to enjoy.
Go on a mushroom hunt!  Spot and identify all the mushrooms the area has on offer.  Orange Fairy Cups, Coral Fungi, Chanterelles and the Common Puffball are just some of the mushrooms found around the area.  Stop by the Visitor Information Centre to pick up a copy of the "Know your Mushrooms" brochure for help identifying them all.  Do not eat any wild mushrooms without expert guidance.
Beaches[edit]
Beach Meadows
Get sand in your shoes when you take a relaxing stroll on one of Queens County's numerous pristine white sand beaches.

Beach Meadows Municipal Beach is a favourite of local families.  Changing rooms, picnic tables, washroom facilities and a playground make this a great place to spend a lazy day on the water.  It is in Beach Meadows east of Liverpool on Hwy 3.  Wheelchair accessible.
Eagle Head Beach, Hwy 3 east of Liverpool.  White sand beach, no facilities - perfect for those looking for a quiet experience.
Hunts Point Beach, Hwy 3 west of Liverpool.  Unsupervised swimming, no facilities.  Public access and wheelchair accessible.  Perfect for evening strolls.
Summerville Beach Provincial Park, Hwy 3 west of Liverpool, is a beautiful kilometre-long white-sand beach.  Unsupervised swimming, picnic area, washrooms, and changing rooms available.  Wheelchair accessible.
White Point Beach, Hwy 3 west of Liverpool.  Half-mile white sand beach, accessible with White Point Beach Resort Day Pass which can be purchased from the Resort.  Walker's and surfer's paradise.  Surf board rental facilities available at the Resort.
Carter's Beach, Locals will no doubt recommend Carter's Beach in Southwest Port Mouton.  Uncrowded and unspoiled, this protected beach leads to clear Caribbean green water and is truly a sight to behold. Carter's Beach is truly unspoiled, so there is extremely limited parking, no washrooms or changing rooms.  Follow established paths only and do not walk, tamper with or destroy sand dunes, wildlife or vegetation. Visitors are requested to abide by Leave No Trace principles.
Eat[edit]
For those wanting a quicker bite in between delectable local dinners, Liverpool has an assortment of fast food restaurants, such as Tim Hortons, McDonald's, Subway, Greco's Pizza, and Kentucky Fried Chicken.

Liverpool Pizzeria (+1 902-354-2422) Locals argue about the best pizza in town.  Some maintain that this is the best place to go.
A-1 (+1 902-354-5550). Some locals prefer Liverpool Pizzeria, while others are staunch supporters of A-1. Try the Nova Scotia specialty, the donair in addition to the pizzas.
Lane's Privateer Inn A pub with quiz and Irish music nights. Is also a restaurant where the seafood chowder is recommended.
Transcotia Motel Dining Room (+1 902-354-3494) Known for their big breakfasts and fish and chips.
Golden Pond (+1 902-354-5186) is a popular choice for locals looking for a mixed offering of Canadian and Chinese food.
Privateer Country Kitchen (+1 902-354-5979) offers classic local favourites at reasonable prices.
White Point Beach Resort. A little further afield, the restaurant offers superior food and spectacular .
Quarterdeck Grill Planked salmon is a favourite on their menus. At the Quarterdeck Resort (see listing in #Sleep below). Grill Hours:
Monday – Thursday 4pm – 8pm, Friday – Sunday 9am – 8pm

Seascape Restaurant, "For the best haddock & chips on the South Shore", 8426 Hwy 103, Port Mouton. +1 902-683-2626. Open April to late fall.
Seaside Seafoods. 11 km (7 miles) west of Liverpool on Hwy 3. +1 902-683-2618.  Clams, lobster burgers, fish and chips and a dairy bar.  Picnic tables available for outside dining.
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Hotels[edit]
 Best Western - Liverpool Hotel and Conference Centre, 65 Queens Place Drive. 65 well appointed rooms with DVD players. Swimming pool and fitness centre. 100% non-smoking. 
 Lane's Privateer Inn, 27 Bristol Ave. 27 A/C guest rooms overlooking the Mersey River. Restaurant and pub. Bookstore and gourmet shop. Free wireless internet, complimentary breakfast. Boat launch. 
 White Point Beach Resort, 75 White Point Road (Route 3). Year-round, seaside beach resort. Restaurant, 9-hole CPGA golf course, ocean spa, conference centre, freshwater lake, heated saltwater pools and complementary recreation programs. 
Motels and B&Bs[edit]
Gallery Guest House.  611 Shore Road, Mersey Point.  Two bedrooms with private baths.  Decks and a view of Coffin Idland and Liverpool Bay.  Art gallery on premises. Enjoy the local smoked salmon for breakfast prepared by Mersey Point Fish Products, a family owned business.
 Geranium House Bed & Breakfast, 87 Milton Rd East, ☏ +1 902-354-4484. Three rooms in a 200-year-old home. Full breakfast served with homemade bread. TV in room and shared bath. 
Left Bank Bed & Breakfast (902-354-9977, 902-354-2317).  348 Main Street, Milton. 2.5-acre riverside property, two large rooms with private baths, full gourmet breakfast, wireless. Registered Heritage Property c.1820
 Morton House Inn, 147 Main St, Milton. Empire-style mansion with four rooms. View of the Mersey River. 
 Motel Transcotia, ☏ +1 902-354-3494. 22 comfortable units, licensed dining room. 
Surrounding area[edit]
The area around Liverpool offers plenty of activities, restaurants and accommodations.

Fisherman's Cove RV & Campground is the only RV park with 80' x30' pull-throughs on Hwy 3 west of Liverpool. +1 902-683-2772. In Hunt's Point, this facility offers laundry, recreation area and internet.  Dumping station on site.
Hunts Point Beach Cottages[dead link].  Hwy 3 west of Liverpool. 10 housekeeping cottages, 1 Honeymoon Suite with whirlpool, 1 Junior Suite.  All cottages on a private sandy beach.
Port Mouton Bay Cottages[dead link], Hwy 103, Port Mouton. +1 902-683-2020.  5 deluxe cottages overlooking Port Mouton Bay.
 Quarterdeck Resort, 7499 Highway 3, Summerville Centre, B0T1T0 (Exit 20 off of Hwy 103), ☏ +1 902-683-2998, toll-free: 1 800-565-1119, beachside@quarterdeck.ca. Rooms with fireplaces, full kitchens, DVD players, wireless internet. (updated Apr 2023)
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]


Routes through Liverpool




Yarmouth ← Shelburne ←

 W  E 

→ Bridgewater → Halifax


Yarmouth ← Shelburne ←

 W  E 

→ Bridgewater → Halifax


Annapolis Royal ← Caledonia ←

  N  S 

→  END








This city travel guide to Liverpool is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Liverpool_(Nova_Scotia)&oldid=4885302"