

Mantin
Mantin is a town in Seremban District, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia.


History[edit]
In the early days, Mantin was well known because of tin mining business by a Chinese towkay (business owner) named Kong Sang. Due to the tin deposits, the Europeans called the place Mine Tin. The locals, not being able to pronounce this correctly, called the place Mantin.
Following the completion of the railway connecting Seremban and Kajang in 1903 which made the export of tin economical, Mantin became a town. The town attracted a large number of Chinese migrants, mainly Hakka, for the tin mining business. Mantin was the center of tin mining business of Negeri Sembilan in the early 20th century.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
The nearest airport is the Kuala Lumpur International Airport which is about 38 km from Mantin. It is the main gateway from/to Malaysia.

By car[edit]
From KLIA, exit the airport area, drive along Salak Tinggi, Nilai, and Pajam (a nearby town) for about 38 km.
From Seremban, drive north for about 17 km.
From Kajang, drive south for about 28 km.
From North-South Expressway (PLUS), exit Nilai toll and turn left, drive along Pajam for about 16 km.
From Lekas Expressway, exit Mantin toll and turn left. This expressway connects Mantin with Kajang and Seremban.
By train[edit]
The nearest railway station is the Seremban Railway Station which is in the city center of Seremban. It offers inter-city train services (southbound to Johor and Singapore; northbound to Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh, Penang, and Hat Yai Thailand) and Komuter train services (to Kuala Lumpur, Rawang, and Ipoh). This station is within walking distance of the bus terminal of Seremban.
Batang Benar Komuter Station is about 10 km from Mantin but offers just KTM Komuter train services.
By bus[edit]
myBAS Route T50 operated by CityLiner (Nilai-Mantin-Seremban) stops here.

Get around[edit]
Mantin is a small town and there is just one main street (Jalan Besar) so it is unlikely, if not impossible, to get lost. If lost, just ask around for directions.
Be sure to look left and right before crossing any street, especially the main street. Like other small towns in Malaysia, motorcycles like to ride against traffic on the same lane for their own convenience and laziness.

See[edit]
Jalan Besar. Also known as the main street, it is where most of the attractions and historical buildings are. Along the street includes places such as banks, pasar (wet market), petrol (gas) stations, police station, and a post office.
Gurudwara Sahib Sikh Temple was built in 1890s and is one of the oldest Sikh temples in Malaysia.
St. Aloysius Catholic Church was built in 1901 with impressive architecture. It was famous for its nunnery before the nuns moved to Seremban.
 Kolej Tuanku Ja'afar. It is a British-style boarding school which was founded in 1991. 
Do[edit]
 Staffield Country Resort. It is a 27-hole international standard golf course which opened its doors in 1994. See external link for more details. 
Taman Rekreasi Gallah.  It was a recreational park on the route from/to Seremban but was deforested and closed down for the development of Lekas Expressway.
Buy[edit]
Pasar Malam.  The night market is next to the main street at Taman Bunga Raya. It is available on Sunday evening.
Eat[edit]
Due to its demographic, Mantin was famous for traditional Hakka food. The most famous Yong Tau Foo vendor has lost its glory after the demolition of the old theater, which was next to its original shop. The vendor now operates at the Mantin Hawker Center which is on the main street.
Another famous food was Woon Chai Koh (a kind of rice pudding) but the original vendor has already retired.
Other Malaysian food is being served, especially along the main street and in the Mantin Hawker Center.
Mantin is also a famous place for growing durian, star fruit, jack fruit, rose apple and guavas.
During durian season (July-August), there is a durian orchard named "Durio Star"[dead link] which serves fresh Mantin durian to visitors.

Sleep[edit]
There are no hotels in Mantin. The nearest hotels are those located in Nilai and Seremban.

Go next[edit]
There are places, both in Negeri Sembilan and Selangor, worth visiting that are easily accessible from Mantin such as Broga (22 km), Nilai (14 km), Kajang (28 km), Kuala Lumpur (57 km), Port Dickson (45 km), and Seremban (17 km).







This city travel guide to Mantin is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Mantin&oldid=4752033"