

Margaret River township.  The town is named after the river which crosses the main road nearby.
Margaret River is a coastal town south of Perth. It is renowned for its wineries, food and surf beaches. It is located in the 'south west' and as many features in the region are now tied into the name, Margaret River is now the common term for the region between The Capes - Cape Naturaliste in the north, and Cape Leeuwin in the south.


Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
The most common way to approach Margaret River is by car.   There is no scheduled commercial air service, although there is a local airport.   It takes around 3 hours to drive from Perth.  One route is to take the Kwinana Freeway/Highway 1 route out of Perth, and drive south.  There are alternative routes, and these might take longer.

By bus[edit]
Unless you are taking a tour, being in Margaret River town without a car is limiting.  There are two bus services that go through the town, the Transwa bus service to Augusta and Flinders Bay, and South West Coaches run a daily bus leaving Margaret River for Perth in the morning, and then leaving in the evening.

By rail[edit]
You can only catch the train from Perth to Margaret River as far as Bunbury, from there the Transwa bus continues on to Margaret River.

Get around[edit]
Margaret River is a great place to walk or bike around. A car is helpful for seeing sites in the surrounding area, including the wineries.

See[edit]
A day in the Margaret River with a family might start with a morning trip to the coffee roastery at Yahava, sip your morning cappuccino, followed by a trip to one of the three mazes, picking up some cheese and crackers from the Margaret River Dairy for morning tea on the way.  Lunch at the Colonial Brewery, with a sampler of a beer and the kids on the playground, followed by a tour of one of the two lighthouses or four caves that run tours in the area.  Drop into a couple of wineries for tasting, before heading to the beach to watch the sunset over the water (and a swim if visiting in summer).

Wineries.  There are many wineries in the surrounding area, from large producers to smaller boutique wineries with just a couple of rows of vines.  In some places there can be 3 or 4 cellar doors within a few hundred metres.  Some wineries have covered areas, and have quality food available, others have souvenirs and produce, others will just fill your tasting glass when you arrive.
The beach.  Margaret River town is inland. However it is not far from the beaches and surf breaks of Gracetown and Yallingup.
Wardan Aboriginal Culture Centre
Margaret River School of Wine
Margaret River Caves
Cape Leeuwin
Do[edit]
Coastal hiking trails
Buy[edit]
Local wines, locally brewed beers, olive oils, cheese, nuts, coffee and other produce
Margaret River Chocolate Factory
Candy Cow
Eat[edit]
-33.957809115.0697271 Chang Thai Kitchen, 1/31 Station Rd, ☏ +61 8 975 72897. W-Su 4:30-9PM. (updated Oct 2021)
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Caza Del Mar (Camping facilities), Georgette Way, Prevelly Park, ☏ +618 9757 2042. 
Prevelly Caravan Park

 Prevelly Park Beach Resort, Lot 99, Mitchell Drive, Prevelly, ☏ +61 8 9757 2374, fax: +61 8 9757 2790, prevellyparkbookings@preveliwines.com.au. Powered and nonpowered sites set amongst trees. Budget style accommodation also available including park vans sleeping up to 6 people with fridge, kettle, toaster, crockery and cutlery supplied. Cedar cabins with exposed beams, sleep 5. located in shady bushland. Fully self-contained beach cottages include ensuites, kitchen and small wooden decks. Heaters, dvd's and line available to hire. No dogs allowed 
 Pullman Resort, Bunker bay, Bunker Bay Road, off Cape Naturaliste road. Luxury Margaret river accommodation nearby to Margaret River wine region.Day spa facilities available on site. Heated swimming pool with views of Bunker bay and the Indian ocean. Sunbathing deck, tennis court, fully-equipped gymnasium. (updated Aug 2022)
 Surfpoint@Prevelly Backpackers, 12 Riedle Drive, Gnarabup, ☏ +61 8 9757 1777, office@surfpoint.com.au. Surfpoint @ Prevelly Backpackers hostel and accommodation located in the Margaret river region, on the south west coast of Western Australia is just a stroll to some of Australia’s finest surfing and swimming beaches. from $29. 
 Stay Margaret River, 78 Wallcliffe Rd, ☏ +61 8 9757 2633, reservations@staymargaretriver.com.au. Motel style accommodation Margaret River accommodation. Tranquil location close to the town centre of Margaret and near many attractions. 
Go next[edit]
Augusta - the southernmost town in the Margaret River Region.
Cowaramup
Dunsborough - Beachside community.
Gracetown
Yallingup - Caves, Reef a Surfing.





This city travel guide to Margaret River is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Margaret_River&oldid=4494289"