
McCloud is a city in Siskiyou County in the Shasta Cascades region of California.


Understand[edit]
Nestled on the southern slope of beautiful Mt. Shasta, McCloud offers family fun and year-round recreation opportunities!
With a variety of accommodations including casual and luxury lodgings, RV Parks, campgrounds, fine dining, square dancing, shopping, Dinner Train excursions and more, historic McCloud is perfect for romantic getaways or family fun vacations.

Get in[edit]
Coming from the North:
Head down south on I-5
Exit 89 East McCloud/ Reno
Turn Left on Minnesota Ave.
Turn Left on Main St.
Coming from the South:
Head up north on I-5
Exit 89 East McCloud/ Reno
Turn Left on Minnesota Ave.
Turn Left on Main St.
Coming from the East:Off Hwy 89
Turn Right onto Broadway (downtown McCloud)
Turn Left onto W Minnesota
Turn Right onto Main Street
Coming from the West:Off Hwy 89
Turn Left on Minnesota Ave.
Turn Left on Main St.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
Explore the views with a drive along beautiful Highway 89 to Mt. Lassen from McCloud, a Gateway along the Scenic Byway.
Tour Lava Beds National Monument, Medicine Lake Highlands and Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge, all unique and remarkable experiences.
Photograph wonderful mill-town architecture in McCloud and countless vistas in the surrounding area and bring home your priceless memories!
Do[edit]
Travel back in time on a Saturday Excursion or Dinner Train.  Or enjoy open air excursions starting June 1st, every Saturday throughout the summer. The Historic Dining Car runs all year.
Mt. Shasta Ski Park located just 4 miles away from McCloud, boasts outstanding skiing and values for all levels of skiers and snow boarders. Reasonable prices, no lines, and challenging runs, night skiing, lessons and helpful staff. With all the amenities you'd expect to find in a thoroughly modern ski facility. Also, some of the summer activities available are:
Mountain Bike rentals,
rock climbing wall, and
scenic ski lift rides
Summer[edit]
Golfing at the area's four nearby golf courses including McCloud Golf Club, one of the first golf courses in Northern California.
Day Hikes at Mt. Shasta, Castle Lake, McCloud River Falls and access to the Pacific Crest trail as well as Clear Creek and Brewer Creek Wilderness trailheads and climbing routes.
Fly Fishing is spectacular at the Nature Conservancy, McCloud River or McCloud Lake.
Square and Round Dancing in two beautifully restored dance halls from May 29 - September 23.
Winter[edit]
Cross country skiing is enjoyed at McCloud Flats, Mt. Shasta Ski Park's Nordic Ski Center or Snowman's Hill.
Sledding opportunities abound around McCloud for old fashioned family fun.
Snowmobiling is enjoyed at several nearby sites, including Pilgrim Creek Snowmobile Park. Bring your own machine or rent one in McCloud.
Mountain climbing the winter routes is enjoyed by many, or perhaps strolling or snowshoeing through a mystical white landscape is more your style. The breathtaking scenery around majestic Mt. Shasta brings people back every year to experience the wonder of a unique area!
Buy[edit]
McCloud Mercantile has a number of small shops including a cafe, clothing, candy store, coffee shop, book store, jewelry and a bar.

Eat[edit]
 Floyd's Frosty, 125 Broadway, P.O. Box 1046, ☏ +1 530 964-9747. 
 McCloud Golf & Recreation, 1001 Squaw Valley Rd, P.O. Box 728. 
 River Grill & Bar, 140 Squaw Valley Rd, ☏ +1 530 964-2700. 
 Shasta Sunset Dinner Train, 328 Main Street, P.O. Box 1199, ☏ +1 530 964-2142, toll-free: +1 800-733-2141. No longer in operation :( 
 Sugar Pine Candy Company, 233 Main St Ste A (Located in Mercantile), ☏ +1 530 964-2817. A little old-style candy store. 
 White Mountain Cafe (Located in the Mercantile), ☏ +1 530 964-2005. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 McCloud River Mercantile Hotel (McCloud Mercantile Hotel), 241 Main St (Central location near Shasta Sunset Dinner Train, few miles from Mt. Shasta Ski Park.), ☏ +1 530 964-2330. A restored 19th century historic building with 11 large air-conditioned rooms and suites. All the baths have heated floors and many w/clawfoot tubs and full breakfast is included. Conference room for up to 150 people. 
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]


Routes through McCloud




Ends at  ← Mount Shasta ←

 N  S 

→ Burney → Truckee









This city travel guide to McCloud is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=McCloud&oldid=4859460"