
Mechanicsburg is a borough of 9,000 people (2019) in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. Mechanicsburg is eight miles west of Harrisburg. It is home to Jubilee Day, the largest and longest-running-one-day street fair on the east coast.


Understand[edit]

On April 12, 1828 the borough was given the name Mechanicsburg after the increased settlement of Conestoga Wagon mechanics to the area.  Designated as a water station for the restocking of locomotives in the 1800s, railroads played a vital role in Mechanicsburg's development linking the town to the business and industry world. Grain and feed companies, lumber yards, and numerous factories were intentionally placed along these tracks to attract more business. During the 19th century an average of 25 trains chugged through the town daily carrying travelers, mail, newspapers, coal, and food.
However, today only six trains travel through each day. This number did not used to be this high until Norfolk Southern gained more work on the local sub-line running through Mechanicsburg.
Today Mechanicsburg is most well known for being the hometown of Shawn Abner, Del Beshore, Brett Michaels, Ricky Rockett, and Karen Bill. Mechanicsburg has had many nicknames throughout the years. It was first known to be called Drytown because of the intense droughts in the winters and summers, Pinchgut, which is a German term meaning a small town with very few people, and Staufferstown after Henry Stauffer who owned much of the land in the colonial time. The last nickname was Creekville because of the many creeks and small bodies of water located in Mechanicsburg.

Get in[edit]
40°12′36″N 77°0′0″WMap of Mechanicsburg
By plane[edit]
Harrisburg International Airport is approximately 16 miles (25 km) from the center of Mechanicsburg. The Multi-Modal Transportation Facility (MMTF) is a four-story facility that provides services for all ground transportation including taxis, limos, rental cars, shuttles, and buses making it easy for travelers to get from point "A" to point "B". Philadelphia International Airport is a two-hour drive away and is sometimes more cost efficient to fly into for travelers coming farther distances.

By train[edit]
Harrisburg is home to the Harrisburg Amtrak Station.  The Amtrak train moves at an average speed of 100 miles per hour (160 km/h) and sells reasonably priced tickets.  The train is cheap, timely, and an economical means of transportation. Located at 4th and Chestnut Street the station is a quick 8 miles to Mechanicsburg.  Harrisburg is home to many taxi companies willing to drive the 8 miles into Mechanicsburg including Capital City Cab Services, American Taxi, Personal Driver Services, and AAA Alpine Taxicab Company.  Averaging $10-12 for a taxi ride into town these cab services are perfect to get a traveler to Mechanicsburg in a timely fashion.

By car[edit]
Being that Mechanicsburg connects into the Carlisle Pike, a major trucking road, many highways connect to the area which makes it easily accessible by car. Coming from the north take I-81 to Exit 3, Carlisle Pike.  Coming from the east or south take I-83 exit 4, Mechanicsburg. Coming westbound take PA Rt. 581. The Pennsylvania Turnpike, I-76 takes you to Mechanicsburg off the Harrisburg West exit.

By bus[edit]
Wolf's Bus Lines Inc, State St, +1 717-697-8569
Rohrer Bus Service-Cumberland Valley [formerly dead link]  206 Hempt Rd, +1 717-766-9205
Greyhound Bus
Get around[edit]

Taxi

New Yellow Cab LLC +1 717-238-7252
Keystone Cab Co. +1 717-234-4400
Capital City Cab Services +1 717-939-6363
AAA Moonlight Taxicab Co +1 717-243-4343
Limousines

Henderson Limousine Services
Unique Limousine
Car rentals

Hertz Rent-a-Car
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Sensible Car Rental
Avis Rent A Car
Car Rentals from Budget
See[edit]
Union Chicrch, 1825
Art & theatre

Art Center Schools and Galleries- 18 Artcraft Drive
Little Theatre of Mechanicsburg- 915 South York St.
 Allenberry Resort Inn and Playhouse. A 15-minute drive from downtown Mechanicsburg. There are always a few great shows playing at a time and the dining is wonderful. This would be a great place for a date or a nice family outing. 
 Oyster Mill Playhouse. 
2nd Floor Gallery, on South Market Street in downtown Mechanicsburg. This particular gallery is very upscale and deals with investments.
William Ris Gallery[dead link], 5 minutes outside of Mechanicsburg in [1][dead link] Camp Hill. This gallery specifies in traditional and contemporary regional/national art.
History

Mechanicsburg is rich in history with easy access to the historical sites throughout town. The town played a large part in the Civil War and it is considered the most northern exchange by Confederate and Yankee troops.  The Frankenberger Tavern[dead link], the oldest building still standing in town, is found on 217 East Main Street.  The museum used to be owned by George Frankeberger who built the log home in 1801 as a hotel for travelers. George was later murdered in his home and to this day the tavern is rumored to be haunted. The Stationmaster's House[dead link] was built in 1866 by the Cumberland Valley Railroad for the station master and his wife.  Found on 4 Strawberry Alley, the home is now restored and furnished with antiques and reproductions from the period to portray a middle-class household during the 19th century. The Passenger Station[dead link] found on 2 Strawberry Alley, is a historical train station built in 1831 connecting to the Cumberland Valley Railroad.  Now the station is home to the Mechanicsburg Museum Association.
Occupation of Mechanicsburg Story Stop, on East Main and South Market Streets, marks the importance Mechanicsburg played in the Civil War.
The Bowmansdale Stone Covered Bridge was built in Bowmansdale, Pennsylvania and was later relocated by Messiah students onto their campus.
Every year on New Year's Eve, Mechanicsburg drops a wrench to remember all of the mechanics that used to work in the town supporting the workers in Harrisburg and Carlisle.
Do[edit]
If you happen to travel to Mechanicsburg the second week in June the famous Jubilee Day street fair runs all day long. Rain or shine Market Street is annually shut down for the longest street fair on the east coast. Food, games, crafts and rides fill the town roads giving everyone a little taste of Mechanicsburg culture.
The large Conodoguinet Creek runs right through the borough. During the warmer spring and summer months the Conodoquinet is a perfect spot to spend a day fishing, tubing, and kayaking with endless places along the water to enter and exit
The Yellow Breeches Creek is also a few minutes from downtown. On McCormick Drive in Mechanicsburg you will find a quaint little road along the creek where many gather for family activities such as boating, kayaking, fishing, and picniking.
Mechanicsburg is a short drive away to the larger Susquehanna River. Here you can go boating, fishing, or enjoy a tour of the river on the Pride of the Susquehanna.
If you want to enjoy a leisurely day out on the golf course Mechanicsburg is home to two courses: Armitage Golf Club located on 800 Orrs Bridge Road and Rich Valley Golf on 227 Rich Valley Rd.
 Liberty Forge, ☏ +1 717 795-9880. Features a driving range, golf course, and an event center. 
Paulus Farm Market on 1216 S. York St.
 Ashcombe's. Features great farms and greenhouses. This particular atrraction features goods and also has a place for events. 
 The Climbnasium. Full service indoor and outdoor climbing facility in a beautiful historic building. 
Finkenbinder Park on the Corner of Arch and Green Streets and Center Square Park W. Lisburn Road in Center Square Development are two parks with full playgrounds.
Downtown Dancing on 19 E. Main St.
Trindle Bowl, 4695 Trindle Road, and ABC West Bowling , 6454 Carlisle Pike.
Relax and spend a day getting pampered at Sass Salon & Day Spa 4931 Carlisle Pike or Changes Salon and Day Spa 5121 E. Trindle Road.
Flagship Cinema in Hampden township features Digital 3D, Stadium Seating, Low-Res Shaker Seats and Free Soda Refills.
40.237-76.98131 Sky Zone Harrisburg.  - in Mechanicsburg
40.1553-77.03362 Williams Grove Speedway, 1 Speedway Dr, ☏ +1 717-697-5000, williamsgrove@verizon.net. Sprint car races every weekend during the season, May - early October.   (updated Jul 2019)
Buy[edit]
The town of Mechanicsburg is aligned with unique, one-of-a-kind stores including antiques, boutiques, sport stores and craft shops.  The best shopping is found along Market Street.
Veronique's Antiques- European and American Antiques, metal refinishing, plating, porcelain repair, and glass grinding. This small antique shop is located right in downtown Mechanicsburg
Sweet Rememberances- a "one stop herb shop" located right in the heard of Downtown Mechanicsburg. Run by an older woman who is very nice and helpful and the store smells wonderful. Herbs are not the only thing sold there, there are also smaller gifts.
Also in Mechanicsburg is the 84p Acre Naval Support Activity Base.
Haar's Drive- In Theatre Flea Market- located about ten minutes outside of Mechanicsburg, this is one of the last standing drive- in movie theaters in this area. Flea markets are also held there on the weekends.
 Carlisle Sports Emporium. Great for the kids, it a 15-minute drive from Mechanicsburg. This attraction features an arcade, laser tag, go-karts, baseball, and mini-golf. 
The Silver Spring plaza off the Carlisle Pike is home to some great shopping including stores such as Target, Bed Bath and Beyond, Best Buy, Ulta, Pets Unlimited, and Dress Barn.
Camp Hill Shopping Center right off of US-15- includes Panera Bread, Barnes and Nobles, Giant, Pier 1 Imports, Hallmark, and BosCovs.
Eat[edit]
In and out of town, Mechanicsburg has an endless variety of restaurants from small diners to commercial franchises.
In-town dining

York Street Grille, 398 N. York Street, has a great home-like atmosphere with reasonably priced food and an assortment of beer.
 [formerly dead link] The Colony House, 125 West Main St. A low key, laid back diner. A perfect spot for Sunday morning breakfast. 
Sal's Pizza, 304 North York Street.  If you're in the mood for pizza, hoagies, or burgers Sal's will be sure to please.
Josie's German Delicatessen is a great German delicatessen with great reviews. They make warm food and prepare all their dishes with authentic German ingredients. Josie is known for her beer and bratwurst and lentil soup.
Diener's is known to have a great breakfast. It is on Market Street and is very small and family oriented.
Just outside of town is The Peppermill Restaurant, with excellent homestyle cooking.
 The Derry Church Artisan Chocolates. A shop in the countryside, it has a very expensive French cuisine of fine chocolates. 
Rakestraws- a historic ice cream shop that has been in Mechanicsburg for a very long time. This ice cream parlor is famous for their black raspberry flavor.
The Mechanicsburg Diner is a very inexpensive dinner option and has a fun decor of the 1950s.
Out of town dining
Mechanicsburg outside of the town consists of many commercial restaurants including

Carrabba's 5250 Carlisle Pike - +1 717-795-9200
Isaac's 4940 Ritter Rd - +1 717-766-1111
Your Place 6035 Carlisle Pike - +1 717-766-4989
Philadelphia Steaks and Hoagies, on the Carlisle Pike, has delicious cheesesteaks.
However there are many unique restaurants outside of town as well including

 Bangkok Wok, 125 Gateway Dr # 111, ☏ +1 717-795-7292. A fabulous Thai restaurant known for their large portions and out-of-this-world taste. 
 Cafe Magnolia, 4700 Gettysburg Rd # 2, ☏ +1 717-901-9700. Offers an intimate and casual dining experience for anyone looking for a good cup of coffee and a light tasty meal. 
Chef Wong's, 5001 East Trindle Road
Great Wall Chinese, 6520 Carlisle Pike
Mikado Japanese Steak and Sushi [formerly dead link] . The hibachi chefs are very friendly and entertaining and the food is delicious.
Sahara Restaurant, at 5205 Simpson Ferry Road, for delicious Moroccan food.
Drink[edit]
 York Street Grille, 398 N York St, ☏ +1 717-795-1768. A great townie-bar with live music, a happy hour, and a full bar. 
 Snapper's Bar and Grill, 120 W Allen St, ☏ +1 717-697-9475. Has an outstanding bar menu and is known for a place for mingling singles. 
 The Gingerbread Man, 26 W Main St, ☏ +1 717-697-8882. A bar known to host large, loud crowds. 
 Aroogas Grille House and Sports Bar (off of Route 15, a few minutes from Mechanicsburg). It is known for its ice cold beer, wings, and sports bar. 
If you're a bit older and would like to enjoy dinner with your drinks you would love The Brew House Grille, on State Street in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania.
If you're tight on money, Moe's Bar and Sports Grille is the place to go. The food and drinks are unbelievably cheap yet the environment and quality is still excellent. It is at 4709 Gettysburg Pike.
Sleep[edit]
 Wingate by Wyndham Mechanicsburg, 385 Cumberland Pkwy, ☏ +1 717-766-2710. 
 The Marriot, 4921 Gettysburg Rd, ☏ +1 717-766-9006. 
 Hampton Inn Harrisburg West, 4950 Ritter Rd, ☏ +1 717-691-1300. 
 La Quinta Inn, 350 Bentcreek Blvd, ☏ +1 717-790-1520. 
 Comfort Inn West, 6325 Carlisle Pike, ☏ +1 717-790-0924. 
 Comfort Suites, 2055 Technology Parkway, ☏ +1 717-732-8804. 
 Econo Lodge, 650 Gettysburg Rd, ☏ +1 717-766-4728. 
 Best Western Plantation Inn, 381 Cumberland Pkwy, ☏ +1 717-766-0328. 
 Homewood Suites by Hilton, 5001 Ritter Rd, ☏ +1 717-697-9101. 
Go next[edit]
If you're looking to do more shopping than what Mechanicsburg has to offer, the Capital City Mall on 3506 Capital City Mall Drive Camp Hill is a five-minute drive from town. The mall has a variety of stores such as Toys R Us, Macy's, JC Penney, American Eagle Outfitters, Hollister Co., Forever 21], Express, and many more of today's popular stores.
if you enjoy skiing and snowboarding you should travel 20 minutes away from Mechanicsburg to Ski Roundtop. Here they have numerous hills for skiers and snowboarders to enjoy. In the summer you can also enjoy paintball and a rope course.
Harrisburg, the state capital, is a terrific area to spend the day exploring and sightseeing.  The city has many attractions to keep any visitor busy.  Bike trails outline the city along the river.  The capitol building is a gorgeous piece of architecture that  gives personal tours during the week.  Strawberry Square provides numerous stores for shopping including Baker and Price Jewelers, The Candy Store, The Dress Barn, GNC Live Well, and Pealer's Flowers. Also at Strawberry Square are Harrisburg University of Science and Technology and Temple University Harrisburg Campus. This is where the Popcorn Hat Players and Shakespeare Festivals take place.  Harrisburg is known for its assortment of fine dining and fun night life. 2nd street of Harrisburg is very popular for its nightlife. This street is lined with fine restaurants and bars. On the weekends Harrisburg often has different festivals and fairs lining the outskirts. City Island has semi-pro baseball games, soccer games, an arcade and mini golf.
Just outside the city of Harrisburg is the Wildwood Lake Sanctuary and the Olewine Nature Center. It is near the Harrisburg Area Community College's campus and includes a nature reserve, nature center, and wildlife park. It is great for children, exercizing, and walking your dog.
If you wish to enjoy beer tasting, the Appalachian Brewing Company is a great place to go. Located at 50 N. Cameron Street, you can enjoy a nice, moderately priced dinner, while you sip on different beers.
To get in some shopping with you also learn some history you should travel to The Broad Street Market[dead link]. It is the oldest continuously operated market house. Here they sell locally grown produce, baked goods, and other venues. It is at North 3rd and Verbece Streets, 10 miles from Mechanicsburg.
Hershey Park is a well known amusement park built in the center of the sweetest place on earth Hershey.  The park is 20 miles away from Mechanicsburg.  The entry fee gives you a ticket to the park and a ticket to Hershey's ZooAmerica which is next to the rides.  Other things in Hershey include:
The Hershey Gardens which features a beautiful butterfly exhibit.
The Hershey Story which is a museum of the whole chocolate venue.
the Hershey Trolley Works, an interactive tour of Hershey which includes chocolate tasting and a trip to the factory.
The Outlets at Hershey.
Lancaster is a 40 minutes on the highway from Mechanicsburg.  Home to the Pennsylvania Dutch, Lancaster has an abundant, unique culture all of its own.  Enjoy the maganificant crop fields as horse and buggies routinely zoom by.  Lancaster has endless attractions welcoming visitors to spend a day with the Amish. Also in Lancaster is the large Park City Mall and the Tanger Outlets. They feature stores like Ralph Lauren, Guess, and Coach.
Gettysburg is a historical gem with an abundance of tourist attractions. Gettysburg is 46 miles from Mechanicsburg and is host to the Gettysburg Battlefield site. There is much to see and do at the battlefield including tours, interactive workshops, and museums. During early July visitors can witness reenactments of The Battle of Gettysburg. During the fall months visitors can take ghost tours of the town of Gettysburg which has been rumored to be haunted by the spirits of the fatal battle.
Indian Echo Caverns is a massive tourist complex in Hummelstown, PA 35 miles from Mechanicsburg. The Indian Echo Caverns are huge limestone caves that are open to magnificent, breath taking public tours that take you deep into the caves.


Routes through Mechanicsburg




Pittsburgh ← Carlisle ←

 W  E 

→ Harrisburg → Philadelphia








This city travel guide to Mechanicsburg is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Mechanicsburg&oldid=4877021"