
Merimbula is a beachside town on the Sapphire Coast in the far south of New South Wales.  Across Merimbula Lake is Merimbula's twin town of Pambula.


Understand[edit]
Merimbula is one of the southernmost towns in New South Wales. It attracts tourist both from NSW and Victoria, but mainly Victorians.

Get in[edit]
0°0′0″N 0°0′0″EMap of Merimbula
By plane[edit]
-36.908611149.9013891 Merimbula Airport (MIM  IATA) (situated 3 km from the town centre between the towns of Pambula and Merimbula). It is served by Regional Express Airlines daily from Melbourne and Sydney.   
There is a cycleway that runs between Pambula and Merimbula that passes the entrance to the airport, so if you're not burdened with too much luggage, it's entirely possible to walk or cycle into town.

By coach[edit]
Premier Motor Services operates a twice daily coach between Sydney and Eden, that stops in Merimbula.

By car[edit]
Merimbula can be accessed by Arthur Kaine Drive which is accessible from Pambula off the Princes Highway from Melbourne. A 7 hour drive from Melbourne and a 3-3.5 hour drive from Canberra. A 7 hour drive south of Sydney.

Get around[edit]
It may be possible to get by in Merimbula without a car.  You can fly to the local airport, and get a taxi into town.  The town itself is walkable, and trips to neighbouring areas are possible by bus on weekdays.
There is a local bus service in Merimbula with Sapphire Coast Bus Lines.  The service is limited to a few services Monday to Friday.
There is a taxi service in town.  You can call it on the national number - 131 008.

See[edit]
Merimbula has six main beaches including Main Beach (Merimbula Beach), Mitchies Jetty, Middle Beach, Bar Beach, Spencer Park Beach, and Short Point.

Merimbula Wharf
Do[edit]
Magic Mountain Theme Park
Big Top Amusement Centre
Merimbula Lake Boardwalk
Merimbula Aquarium with feeding at 11:30AM on Wednesdays and Fridays
 Headland Fishing Charters (Joe & Adele Gatt), 8 Seaview Ave (Off Princess Highway, turn right at McDonalds and 3rd turn on left.), ☏ +61 2 6495 1134. Fishing Charter. Very professional operation offering assistance for those who need. Fishing types: reef, game, shark and Kingfish. Dolphin and whale watching - seasonal September, October and November with sightings guaranteed in October, or money back. 
Scuba Diving[edit]
Sponge gardens at Yellow Rock
Empire Gladstone wreck of near Haycock Point
Buy[edit]
 Potoroo Palace Native Animal Educational Sanctuary, 2372 Princes Hwy (9km north of town on the Princes Hwy), ☏ +61 2 6494 9225. 10-4. A wildlife park famous locally for its personal staff approach. Talks are intimate and you get to touch lots of different animals - including an echidna (you have to pat it the right way!) and a huge python. The park itself is quite relaxing with ponds, lunch areas and giant gameboards for the kids. There is a big stone cafe and a park "train". Koalas, dingoes, birds, emus wandering about, and the kangaroos really like being tickled on the chest. Tip: grab a bag of animal food on your way in. $17 adults, kids $10-12, family $47.50, group discounts. 
Eat[edit]
Merimbula and Pambula are well known for oysters, and there are a number of oyster farms in the area.

-36.96885149.8848781 Broadwater Oysters, Pambula Lake. Oyster shed selling locally grown Sydney rock oysters shucked to order, to eat on the spot or take away. $17/half-dozen. 
 Santa Fe Restaurant, Upstairs Merimbula Plaza, Beach St., Merimbula. (Near the corner of Alice St. opposite Tourist Information Centre), ☏ +61 2  6495 4073. One of the most popular restaurants in the area specialising in Modern Mexican. 
Merimbula RSL has great food at cheap prices, recommend the seafood platter for two.
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 Summerhill Motor Inn, 24 Merimbula Dr. $130 and up. 
 Capri Apartments, 38-40 Main St (on Princes Hwy), ☏ +61 2 6495 2367. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 9:30AM. 2 and 3 bedroom self contained apartments. The upstairs apartments (and some downstairs apartments) have water views of Merimbula Lake and the entrance to the Pacific Ocean. A/C, TV and DVD, wifi, laundry, stove, fridge/freezer, cutlery, pots, pans and other cooking accessories. Swimming pool, spa and BBQ area. Off street parking is available (can cater boats and trailers - check availability when booking). From $520/week. 
Go next[edit]
SE Forest National Park is nearby and contains one of the last few patches of pristine wet temperate rainforests in southeastern New South Wales. Unfortunately, the roads to get to the park can be a bit chockers and should only be visited with the appropriate vehicle.
Beowa National Park protects the nearby coastal wilderness.

Bega
Canberra
Cooma
Eden
Narooma


Routes through Merimbula




Shoalhaven ← Bega ←

 N  S 

→ Eden → Wollongong








This city travel guide to Merimbula is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Merimbula&oldid=4816512"