
Mountain View is a small city in the Ozarks region of Missouri. With under 3000 inhabitants, this is a fairly quiet place, but in a great location for anyone wanting to explore the Missouri Ozarks.


Get in[edit]
Coming by car, take US Highway 60.
Mountain View has an excellent airport that can accommodate small jets.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
Mountain view's prime attraction are its robust natural surroundings, which are in many cases just minutes away from town.

Mark Twain National Forest - A good part of Mountain View's direct surroundings belongs to this park. Apart from the scenic forest landscapes there's plenty of bird species to spot.
Ozark National Scenic Riverways - A beautiful park, and the first of its kind in the US, as it was created to preserve the river system. Almost all of its 300 caves have been closed to the public, in order to protect the bat populations living there. To get a glance, head to the Round Spring Cave or Devils Well, as those are the only ones open. Note that you'll have to pay a small fee to enter th Round Spring Cave.
Alley Spring and Mill - At less than a 30-minute drive, this 1894 three story mill is now a museum. The spring sends some 76 million gallons (288 million L) of water per day into Jack Fork's River, feeding a lake as well. There's a one-room schoolhouse to see and some interesting historic information available.
Rocky Falls - A place less visited, only a short drive away from town. Here, turbulent water streams over burgundy red rocks which was molten to lava deep within the earth and surfaced here some 1.5 billion years ago. This particular kind of rock is called rhyolite porphyry. As it's much harder than more common dolomite stone, the water has hardly been able to make a way for itself and is rushes through the limited cracks it has found. From Winona, take H Highway to NN, and continue two miles on NN until you reach a gravel road. You'll spot the Rocky Falls sign. Picnic places are available.
Do[edit]
Outdoor activities are one of the main reasons people visit Mountain View and its surroundings. Biking and hiking are very popular and possible as good as everywhere, but there's also plenty of other opportunities.

Go Swimming in Jack’s Fork River - A scenic river area surrounded by great flora and fauna. Take Highway 17 north off U.S. 60 to the river access.
Canoeing is popular all around, and a particularly good choice if you're heading to Jack's Fork River.
Horseback riding; Mark Twain National Forest has good options.
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
 Anita's, US Hwy 60 West, ☏ +1 417-934-5555. Steaks and seafood. 
 Ron's Family Restaurant, Downtown, ☏ +1 473-934-5555. Family food and great breakfast.  Where the locals go. 
Drink[edit]
 Anita's, Hwy 60, ☏ +1 573-934-5555. Great steaks and lounge. 
Sleep[edit]
Go next[edit]


Routes through Mountain View




Vinita ← Springfield ←

 W  E 

→ Van Buren → Sikeston








This city travel guide to Mountain View is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Mountain_View_(Missouri)&oldid=3925627"