

Müden sheep auction
Müden is an interesting and attractive village near Faßberg in the southern part of the Lüneburg Heath in the German state of Lower Saxony.
The village, which is situated in the county of Celle is a very popular tourist spot whose catchment area includes Hamburg, Bremen and Hanover. It is surrounded by large tracts of forest and heathland. The nearest big towns are Soltau (30 km west), Uelzen (45 km east) and Celle (32 km south). Two rivers, the Wietze and the Örtze, merge in Müden.



Understand[edit]
Historically, Müden was a typical heathland farming village and there is still something of that atmosphere in its jigsaw of cobbled lanes away from the main roads. An artificial lake, the Heidesee has been created as a recreation area, but Müden is best-known locally for its excellent "coffee and cake" cafe in a converted barn, the Ole Müllern Schün.

Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
Müden can be reached easily on the local road network, from Bergen (Germany) take the L81 , Bahnhofstraßse, at the end of the road in Beckedorf turn right onto the L240 to Hermannsburg, stay on this road until you reach Müden, approximately 20 minutes drive from Bergen.

By rail and bus[edit]
Müden can also be reached by bus. A regular service runs from Unterlüß the nearest main railway station, which is on the Hanover to Hamburg line.

Get around[edit]
Müden is a small village with one main route going through and a minor junction leading to either Munster, Hermannsburg or Faßberg. The entire village is an easy stroll.

See[edit]
 St. Laurence Church (St.-Laurentius-Kirche), Alte Dorfstraße. Jul-Sep 9am-6pm daily; Oct-May Su 11am-6pm. A historic brick Gothic church, typical of the Lüneburg Heath, with a separate, timber-framed bell tower. Check out the 500 year old fresco in the choir. 
 Hillige Eeke. North of the village is an ancient oak, known as the Hillige Eeke("holy oak"), which is over 600 years old. It was probably used as a Gerichtsbaum, a tree under which regular court sessions were held. 


Do[edit]
 Heidschnucke Auction. Each year, on the second Thursday in July, the moorland sheep (Heidschnucke) auction takes place. The strongest young rams are presented to breeders and spectators and the best animals win prizes. The Heidschnucke rams can be bid for at the accompanying auction. 
 Mill Festival (Mühlenfest). On the second Sunday in September a mill festival (Mühlenfest) is held at the old mill in Müden. 
 Müden Animal Park and Treetop Climbing (Wild und Abenteurpark Müden), Heuweg 23, ☏ +49 5053 - 903 031. 9am-6pm. A great activity day out. Two courses of high rope climbing through the woods. Ideal for beginners, very safe and well managed. For experts, there is an alternative course. The animal park is great for young children and very interactive. Have fun! Adults: €5, children: €3.50. 
 [dead link] Berlin Airlift Museum (Erinnerungsstätte Luftbrücke Berlin) (Approx. 8 km from Müden in the village of Fassberg). 1 Apr-15 Oct, M-Th 13:00-17:00, F 13:00-15:30, Su 13:00-17:00. A museum commemorating the Berlin Airlift, when West Berlin was saved from the Communist blockade in 1948/49. The museum is located in Faßberg airfield, formerly Royal Air Force Fassberg. Entry free. 
 Wietzer Berg (Signed to the Lönsstein about 2 km before Müden just NW (left) of the L240 from Hermannsburg). The Wietzer Berg is a low hill (102 m) with good views over the Heath and the Örtze valley to the south and a hub for numerous walks in the area. At the summit is the Lönsstein, a large "glacial erratic" rock that has been turned into a monument to Hermann Löns, the well-known heath poet. There are various scenic walks from ½ hr to 4 hrs in length and you can also walk into Müden from here. There is a car park and cafe by the road at the foot of the gentle rise leading to the monument or you can park in Müden and take a longer walk from there. 
Buy[edit]
There are few shops in Müden apart from the normal baker's and grocery shops, but the village does have one or two nice antique and local craft shops that are worth browsing.

Eat[edit]
Müden has several cafés and restaurants, many serving typical regional cuisine like Heidschnuckenbraten (moorland sheep mutton chops), asparagus with heath-grown potatoes or Buchweizentorte, a delicious, local gateau made using buckwheat. One with a reputation across the region is the:

 Ole Müllern Schün (Old Miller's Barn), Alte Dorfstraße 6, ☏ +49 5053 94122, fax: +49 5053 903520. May-Oct Tu-Su 14:00-18:00, Nov-Apr W-Su 14:00-18:00. The Ole Müllern Schün serves the most amazing cakes and its fame has spread to German television. As a result, it can get very busy in the summer months so you may need to book in advance even for a coffee! Specialities include Buchweizentorte ("buckwheat gateau")  and Blaubeertorte ("bilberry gateau"). 
 Landhotel Bauernwald (see Sleep section below). 
 Niemeyer's Romantik Posthotel (see Sleep section below). 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]

 Camping Sonnenberg, Sonnenberg 3, 29328 Faßberg (Müden) (Go into Müden from Bergen the campsite is signposted on left at far end of village.). A very friendly, family-run site just outside the village of Müden, about a 20 minute drive from Hohne Camp; just far enough away when you need a break but not too much of a drive. The pitches are on well-drained grass, mostly situated in the unspoilt woodland, an ideal place if you want peace and quiet, long walks or cycle rides. All pitches have power and water, clean showers and toilet facilities. A very nice bar/restaurant run by the owners, always a warm and welcoming atmosphere, in warmer weather there is a covered seating area outside the bar where you can sit with a cold beer while you watch the world go by.  The campsite is a five minute cycle ride into the village of Müden, well known for those cream cakes! Not the most modern site but well worth a visit. 
 Niemeyer's Romantik Posthotel, Familie Wolfgang Niemeyer. Hauptstraße 7 29328 Faßberg-Müden (from Bergen take the road to Hermannsburg, follow the signs for Müden, turn R into Müden, just 25m from the main L240 road), ☏ +49 5053 98900. A nice hotel in a small village, the area is ideal for walking or cycling. Reputedly excellent service and recommended by numerous guides. Restaurant serves regional and French specialities. 
 Landhotel Bauernwald, Alte Dorfstraße 8, 29328 Faßberg (From the L240 Direction Hermannsberg, turn into the town on Alte Dorfstraße, you will find the hotel on this road.), ☏ +49 5053 9899-0. Check-in: 14:00-21:00. A country hotel typical of the area; rooms are 3 star and meals are reasonable, ranging from approx €23 to 35. 
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
Just a few of the places of interest within easy reach of Müden are listed below,

Uelzen - best known for its unusual modern art railway station.
Hermannsburg - a quiet heath village with landing stages for launching canoes and rowing boats on the Örtze.
Munster - visit the German Tank Museum.
Bergen - heath town most noted for the nearby Belsen Concentration Camp.
Lüneburg - a picturesque, historic town with attractive centre, town hall and old river port.





This city travel guide to Müden is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Müden_(Örtze)&oldid=4105152"