

Joseph Dean & Son Woolen Mill
Newark is in Delaware.


Understand[edit]
While European settlement of the area began in the 17th century, the city was not established by royal charter until 1758.  Today Newark is one of the largest cities in Delaware and is home to the state's largest institution of higher learning, the University of Delaware.

Get in[edit]
Map of Newark (Delaware)


By car[edit]
From the south take Maryland 279 (Exit 109 on I-95) in Elkton, MD, north to Delaware 2 and continue directly into town.  From the north exit I-95 at Exit 3 and take Delaware 273 West. DE-273 continues directly onto East Main Street (which becomes one-way westbound at Library Avenue). Interstate 95 also connects the city to Baltimore, New York, Washington DC and Philadelphia.

By bus[edit]
DART First State buses, routes #6, 16, 33, and 34, providing service to Wilmington and the nearby Christiana Mall. Most routes travel through the university campus.
Megabus. Service from Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, D.C., Richmond, and Hampton. The bus stop is at the University of Delaware's Parking Lot #6.
By train[edit]
Newark's historic train station
Newark's Rail Station on South College Avenue at Mopar Drive is served by both SEPTA and Amtrak.  Newark is the last stop on SEPTA's Wilmington/Newark line, and tickets from Center City Philadelphia and the university stops (Temple University and University City) are $6.75 if bought in advance and $8.00 if bought on board the train on weekdays and $5.25 if bought in advance and $7.00 if bought on board the train on evenings and weekends.
Regular Amtrak service is also available from nearby Wilmington station, with both standard-speed Northeast Corridor trains and high-speed Acela trains serving the station. SEPTA service from Newark is only available on weekdays in the morning and evening hours; daily service from Wilmington is more regular.
The Maryland Transit Authority is considering extending its MARC Train Penn Line service to Newark allow for direct travel to Baltimore and Washington via commuter rail (2017).

39.670278-75.7530561 Newark railway station, 10 Mopar Drive.   (updated Dec 2023)
Get around[edit]
The best way to get around downtown is on foot or by bicycle, but please do not bike on the sidewalk.  Where available, such as on Delaware Avenue, use dedicated bike lanes. Bike lanes in Newark run in the same direction as automobile traffic.
Motorists will find ample spaces to park on-street or in lots operated by the Newark Parking Division.  Just be sure to feed the meter when parking your car on the street, because the meters run late into the night. Hours for parking meters are M-Sa 8AM to 1AM and Su 1PM to 1AM, excluding city and federal holidays. Parking at metered spaces is prohibited between 2AM and 6AM. Rates for the parking meters are $2.25 per hour and may be paid with quarters or credit cards. The time limits at parking meters vary, with the meters along Main Street having a two-hour time limit while meters farther from the downtown area have an eight-hour time limit. Hourly parking is available at Lot 1 behind the Main Street Galleria, Lot 3 on the west side of Center Street north of Main Street, and Lot 4 on the east side of Center Street north of Main Street. Parking at the downtown lots costs $2 per hour and may by paid with cash/quarters, credit cards, or with parking validation from most local businesses. Many of the meters on streets surrounding the University campus have been replaced or tied to the Passport parking app. The downtown lots free parking Su from 7AM to 1PM on Sunday and on city and federal holidays.
A free bus, called the Unicity, is operated jointly by the city and the University of Delaware to shuttle people around town Monday through Friday.  The N1 route runs from 8:51AM - 3:46PM.  This route runs every two hours.  This route only stops at the train station at 11:57AM.  Routes N2 and N3 are primarily for commuters.
Take the James F. Hall Bike Trail to cut through town the scenic way. Starting in College Square Shopping Center, and ending just off of Elkton Road, the trail roughly follows the Amtrak tracks that run parallel to Main Street.

See[edit]
John Evans House
The Green is the centerpiece of the University of Delaware's campus.  It is a handsome, tree-lined mall framed by Georgian revival buildings on a roughly north-south axis, best viewed from East Main Street, just east of South College Avenue.  University buildings of architectural significance include the antebellum Old College, home to Old College Gallery (open W-Su noon-5PM and Th noon-8PM), the Frank Furness-designed Recitation Hall and Venturi, Scott & Brown's controversial Trabant Student Center.  Geology enthusiasts will want to visit the university's Mineralogical Museum in Penny Hall on Academy Street just south of Lovett Avenue.
There is more to this college town than the cap and gown.  Check out the delightful mural honoring Edgar A. Poe on a concrete wall on North Chapel Street just south of East Cleveland Avenue, and tour the Newark History Museum at 429 S College Street for a crash course in local history.
The Newark Reservoir on Old Paper Mill Road, north of downtown, boasts a path around its perimeter offering commanding views of the city and surrounding countryside. Wildlife, especially birds, flock to the area. Fishing is not permitted.
Boundary markers north and west of town mark points on Delaware's border with Maryland and Pennsylvania.  Most accessible is the Tangent Stone, laid in 1892, along Hopkins Bridge Road.

39.6315-75.75811 Iron Hill Museum, 1359-1365 S Old Baltimore Pike.   (updated Dec 2023)
Do[edit]
Catch Blue Hen fever at a Fightin' Blue Hens football game at Delaware Stadium on South College Avenue.  For a change of pace, take in a free concert in the Amy E. du Pont Music Building at Amstel Avenue and Orchard Road, a film at Main Street Movies 5 (230 Main St) or commune with nature at White Clay Creek State Park, north of town on New London Road.  Deerfield Golf & Tennis Club is open to the public and is just north of town at 507 Thompson Station Road.

39.6142-75.74781 Sky Zone Trampoline Park, Newark. (updated May 2022) - located in Newark
Buy[edit]
White Clay Creek
Retailers downtown come and go, and most cater mainly to college students.  But there are some gems that have stood the test of time.  These include:

 Bing's Bakery, 253 E. Main. A local landmark, Bing's has been selling delicious baked goods since 1946. 
Wooden Wheels--301 Newark Shopping Center. Family-owned and -operated for over 30 years, this bike shop is the one stop spot for all of your BMX, Mountain Bike, Road Bike, or Fixed Gear needs.
Grassroots -- 93 E. Main.  Handcrafts.
 Herman's Quality Meat Shoppe, 64 E. Cleveland Avenue. All-natural meat products. Open since 1967. 
 National 5 & 10, 66 E. Main.. Family-owned variety store with souvenirs, co-ed essentials, University gear, costumes and everything in between. 
Switch Skate & Snow -- 54 E. Main.  Skateboarding is not be a crime, but failure to mention the local skate shop ought to be.  Opened 1994.
Newark Natural Foods Co-op-- 280 E Main. Support local agriculture and organic produce here, where you can find all of the delicious vegetarian and vegan goodies that the chain stores don't carry.
Aunt Margaret's Antique Mall294 E Main. Amazing selection of antiques, from ancient cameras to Buddy Holly records.
Eat[edit]
 Cafe Gelato, 90 E. Main. 
 The Deer Park Tavern, 108 W. Main. This West Main Street and New London Road landmark has been a tavern since the early 1800s. Notable guests include Edgar Allan Poe who is said to have laid a curse on the entire town after tripping on his way out of the tavern. 
 Grotto Pizza, 45 E Main St, ☏ +1 302-369-0600. Su-Th 11AM-1AM, F Sa 11AM-1:30AM. A Delaware favorite, Grotto Pizza is a modestly-priced local pizza chain known for pizza with a swirl of sauce on top. Also features a sports bar. The Main Street location is popular with college students who prefer watching sports to conversing.   
Newark Deli & Bagels -- 36. E. Main. Specializes in bagels.
Home Grown Cafe- 126 E. Main. Local flavor with a particular flair for vegan and vegetarian specialties. Great food, great bar, the perfect spot for a laid back dinner with friends.
Banh Mi Boy -- Vietnamese sandwich shop with a variety of lunch plates and tasty sandwiches.
 UDairy Creamery (University of Delaware Creamery), 535 S College Ave (Follow signs for Fred Rust Ice Arena and you will see the small building located directly north.), ☏ +1 302 831-2486. 11AM-8PM. Operated by students in the University's Agriculture and National Resources school, both locations of this shop serve ice cream and cheese sourced from the college's own dairy cows and made on campus. Features numerous unique flavors such as Delaware River Mud Pie and U Be-Be Baby (Ube flavor) in addition to limited seasonal flavors. The flagship location is adjacent to the Fred Rust Ice Arena and opened in 2017, but a new location also serving food replaced the Starbucks attached to the University Bookstore on East Main St in 2021. 1 scoop $3.95. (updated Jan 2023)
Drink[edit]
Like any college town Newark has plenty of places to wet your whistle.  The demise of the storied Stone Balloon where a young Bruce Springsteen played, and the stoner's favorite East End Cafe, has left:

Deer Park as the undoubted king of bars, but thirsty visitors have options.  So pick one, saddle up to the bar, and order "a lager".  If that gets you a Yuengling, stick around.  If it gets you a blank stare, try someplace else.
 Iron Hill Brewery, 147 E. Main. There's no Yuengling here, but since opening in the late 1990s this popular brewpub has added six locations in the area. This is the original. 
 Klondike Kate's (158 E. Main Street). Across the street, is a college bar with nightly specials and deejay nights, where in clement weather you can fill your belly with beer on the porch over what was once a gasoline filling station. 
Timothy's -- 100 Creek View Road.  A vaguely Irish sports bar in a former industrial building overlooking White Clay Creek.
 Home Grown Cafe-- 126 E. Main. Awesome selection of craft beers on tap and in bottles, relaxed atmosphere and live music make this a great stop for your weekend.
Catherine Rooney's -- 102 E. Main. Irish pub with specials to match. If they don't draw a shamrock in the foam of your Guinness, switch to another brew.
 16 Mile Taphouse (Stone Balloon). A bar that serves primarily beer from 16 Mile Brewery in Georgetown, DE; also has a large selection of bottles from other breweries around the world. 
Sleep[edit]
 Embassy Suites Newark - Wilmington/South, 654 South College Avenue, ☏ +1 302-368-8000. Free daily cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening reception. 
 Hampton Inn & Suites Wilmington Christiana, 1008 Old Churchmans Road, ☏ +1 302-454-7300. Opened in 2014. Complimentary daily breakfast and WiFi access. 
 Hilton Wilmington Christiana, 100 Continental Drive, ☏ +1 302-454-1500. 
 Homewood Suites by Hilton Newark-Wilmington South Area, 640 South College Avenue, ☏ +1 302-453-9700. Extended stay hotel. Complimentary daily hot breakfast and evening dinner & drinks, Monday through Thursday. All rooms are equipped with a full kitchen. 
 Sonesta Select Newark Christiana Mall, 48 Geoffrey Drive, ☏ +1 302-456-3800, reservations@soneta.com. (updated Apr 2022)
 Ramada Newark/Wilmington, 260 Chapman Road, ☏ +1 302-738-3400. (updated Jul 2017)
 Sonesta ES Suites Wilmington - Newark, 240 Chapman Road, ☏ +1 302-453-9200. 
Go next[edit]
Cooch's Bridge -- On Old Baltimore Pike just south of town.  Site of a Revolutionary War skirmish, and the only action fought on Delaware soil.
Fletchwood Inn -- 208 Fletchwood Road, Elkton, Maryland.  This roadside bar has a pool table (or two) and serves beer and sells six-packs to go until 2AM (one hour after liquor sales end in Delaware.)
White Clay Creek Preserve  -- In nearby Landenberg, Pennsylvania.
Winterthur Museum & Country Estate -- 5105 Kennett Pike, Wilmington.  World-class decorative arts museum with beautiful gardens to boot.


Routes through Newark




Baltimore ← Aberdeen ←

 SW  NE 

→ Wilmington → Philadelphia


Philadelphia ← Wilmington ←

 N  S 

→ Perryville → Baltimore


END  ←

 SW  NE 

→ Wilmington → Philadelphia








This city travel guide to Newark is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Newark_(Delaware)&oldid=4842830"