
Nimbin is a village in northern New South Wales, 30 km from Lismore and an hour's drive from Byron Bay.
Nimbin is a centre of alternative lifestyle and culture and is a Sister City to Woodstock, USA. The Aquarius Festival of 1973 revived a dying dairying village first settled by Europeans in 1840s. The new settlers of the 1970s, called Hippies, set up environmentally friendly businesses, cottage arts and crafts and introduced alternative living, including communes. Communes were founded and granted their own title in law, Multiple Occupancy, which was a first in New South Wales.  The village is very much open for tourism, especially eco-tourism, and has some shops and cafes that play off the alternative, hippie image. 
After visiting the village, though, you may think that it is more about selling marijuana, than exploring alternative lifestyles.  You are unlikely to get hassled much though.  If you look like you might be in the market, you will get an offer, and if you refuse, you will politely be left alone.


Get in[edit]
28°36′0″S 153°14′0″EMap of Nimbin
Nimbin is accessible via the Nimbin Road from Lismore or Kyogle Road and Blue Knob Road from Murwillumbah.  It is a popular day trip from Byron Bay.

Get around[edit]
Walk, the environment and atmosphere is best spent walking. Nimbin is not a large community and therefore any other transport is unnecessary.

See[edit]
Nimbin Village
Alternative lifestyle shops and cafés.

 Hemp Museum. gold coin donation that goes towards the restoration of the town murals. (updated Oct 2021)
 Hemp Embassy. (updated Oct 2021)
 Nimbin Candle Factory. (updated Oct 2021)
 Rainbow Power Company. (updated Oct 2021)
 Djanbung Gardens Permaculture Centre. (updated Oct 2021)
 Nimbin Bush Theatre. (updated Oct 2021)
Do[edit]
Markets - 4th and 5th Sunday of the month.
 MardiGrass. Australia's largest cannabis festival is held in Nimbin on the first weekend of May.  Concerts, lectures, a grand parade and clouds of purple haze around it all.  Expect large crowds and a heavy police presence. 
Buy[edit]
Nimbin is widely known as a hub of cannabis culture.  However, recreational cannabis remains illegal in NSW and police regularly crack down on sales.

Nimbin Craft Gallery
Perceptio Bookstore
BringaBong
Happy High Herbs
Eat[edit]
 Blue Knob Hall Gallery & Cafe, 719 Blue Knob Rd (Tourist Drive 32), Blue Knob, ☏ +61 2 6689 7449. (updated Oct 2021)
 The Contented Tummy. (updated Oct 2021)
 The Nimbin Hotel & Bistro. (updated Oct 2021)
 Grapevine Cafe. Organic Food, a little on the expensive side. (updated Oct 2021)
 Capers on Cullen. Can be considered the best coffee in town. (updated Oct 2021)
Drink[edit]
Nimbin Hotel & Backpackers - live music every weekend, restaurant with affordable meals.
Nimbin Bush Theatre - old cinema, wood fired pizzas, beer, wine and spirits.

Sleep[edit]
Farm accommodation, backpackers retreats and bed & breakfast.
There is a YHA there, with views towards Mt Warning.  Mt Warning is believed to be the first point on the Australian mainland to see the sun rise each day.

 RainbowStay Nimbin, 1857 Nimbin Rd, Coffee Camp, ☏ +61 2  6689 9444. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. Quiet and peaceful self-contained 2-bedroom Deco farmhouse sleeping up to six people with own large salt-water swimming pool and winter log fire on acreage for holiday lets. $60+. 
 Black Sheep Farm. (updated Oct 2021)
 Grey Gum Lodge. (updated Oct 2021)
 Nimbin Rox YHA. (updated Oct 2021)
 Nimbin Tourist Caravan Park. (updated Oct 2021)
 Nimbin Backpackers Granny's Farm. (updated Oct 2021)
 Anna's Retreat. (updated Oct 2021)
 Crofton's Retreat. (updated Oct 2021)
 Calurla. (updated Oct 2021)
 Eternity Springs Art Farm. (updated Oct 2021)
 Havan's Eco Retreat. (updated Oct 2021)
 Teretre Cabins. (updated Oct 2021)
Stay safe[edit]
Cannabis may be openly sold and somewhat tolerated in Nimbin however it is illegal under New South Wales law, you may be subjected to penalties if caught by authorities with possession of or public consumption of cannabis.  Authorities may set up roadside patrols on traffic routes out of Nimbin. You may be pulled over by police, and it is easy to purchase enough cannibis in Nimbin to get you into trouble if you are caught.  You can also be tested at the roadside for driving under the influence of cannabis.
The nature of the town means that it isn't as innocent as many other New South Wales country towns of its size.  Tourists have been the victims of assaults in Nimbin. Take care behind the hemp museum (Rainbow Lane).
If you attend the annual Mardis Gras, there will likely be a high police presence, including lots of drug and alcohol tests on the roads.

Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Nimbin is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Nimbin&oldid=4851019"