

Niška tvrđava, Fortress of Nis
Niš (Serbian: Ниш, pronounced: 'neesh') is a city in Serbia. The administrative centre of the Nišava District, it's a must-see historical city for any traveller passing through on their way to Greece or the Middle East.


Understand[edit]
Niš is an important crossroads between Central Europe and the Middle East, and assumes the central position in the Balkan peninsula, surrounded by a number of mountains, two rivers, two beautiful gorges, and numerous sites of historical importance from various periods in Niš Valley. Some approximate distances: Niš - Belgrade 240 km, Niš - Sofia 150 km, Niš - Skopje 200 km, Niš - Thessaloniki - 400 km.
The streets of this university city with 1/4 million residents are buzzing with life.

Tourist information centres[edit]
The Niš Tourist Organization has two tourist information centres and a website. In the tourist information centres one can get information related to tourism in Niš. They also sell maps, brochures, souvenirs and postcards. The website is quite comprehensive and detailed (available in English and Serbian).

 [formerly dead link] Tourist information centre "The Fortress", Tvrdjava, ☏ +381 18 250222, info@visitnis.com. 
 [formerly dead link] Tourist information centre Niska Banja Spa, Sindjeliceva 3b, Niska Banja, ☏ +381 18 4548588, info@visitnis.com. 
 Tourist Organization of Nis. 
Get in[edit]
As with most of Europe it is usually recommended to travel by train for cost and speed. The trains are old and there have been delays. However, trains will be more comfortable and almost always more scenic.
All buses depart from the central bus station, just behind the fortress and the green market. Same is for trains, but central train station is located a bit far from the bus station, so calculate at least good 20 minutes of walking to reach one from another.

By plane[edit]
Weekly direct flights are available from Cologne, Frankfurt-Hahn, Istanbul and Ljubljana. Seasonal flights to Turkish, Montenegrin and Greek resorts are offered during the summer. Ryanair has flights to and from Stockholm Arlanda (ARN), Korfu, Malta, and Vienna. In July 2019 the Serbian government gave a subsidy to Air Serbia to start serving Niš out of a range of central European airports.
43.3376621.866321 Constantine the Great International Airport (INI  IATA) (5 km away from the city centre). Apart from taxis, there are regular buses to the city every 15 minutes from early morning till midnight on workdays.   

By train[edit]
Niš is on the north-south corridor connecting Belgrade with Skopje, Sofia and on to Thessaloniki and Istanbul. It's a slow but very scenic route.
As of 2023 major upgrades to the line has been announced and most services are replaced by bus or cancelled all together. Works are expected to finish in 2026-27. Updated timetables can be found on Serbian Railways website.

43.31632421.8773442 Niš railway station (Железничка станица Ниш) (2 km west of the main square, a good half an hour walk).   (updated Mar 2023)
By bus[edit]
43.3251321.890793 Bus station (Autobuska Stanica) (a couple of blocks north of the river). Almost all buses traveling from the northwest into Bulgaria or further southeast to Turkey will stop in Niš. All buses traveling between Belgrade and Greece or North Macedonia will stop in Niš. An average bus ride from Belgrade (three hours), but make sure you opt for a 'direct' bus from Belgrade central bus station, as some buses will stop in a dozen towns on the way, sometimes getting out of the highway, and prolong the ride considerably.   
The quickest route from the bus station to the main square (Trg Kralja Milana) is to go left down the side road past all the market stalls and the covered market. This takes you to the fortress entrance from where you can cross the river and head towards the obvious Ambassador hotel.

 FLiX Prevoz (shuttle service), Bul. Svetog Cara Konstantina 80-86, ☏ +38163456515, info@flix.rs. Airport shuttle services to Nis, Belgrade, Sofia, Skopje, Pristina, Thessaloniki, Timisoara airports, as well as rides to tourist attractions in area by car or mini van. (updated Jul 2020)
By car[edit]
The European motorway E75 routes through Niš. From the north, you may use any highway from the Hungarian border over Novi Sad and Belgrade to Niš. From the northwest, you can travel over Austria, via Slovenia and Croatia to Belgrade and then to Niš. These are all modern highways, including the section Belgrade-Niš. It is a fast road with six lanes and 120 km/h speed limit, which locals seldom observe as the road is in a pretty good shape. Beware of the police, though. At this speed, travel time from Belgrade is usually two hours.
The highway continues for another 10 km towards the Bulgarian border, and then turns into a narrower mountainous road to Sofia. Caution is advised here, especially along the 20 km of the beautiful Gorge of Sicevo, starting just after the end of the highway on the outskirts of the city. The other extension of the highway branches to the south, towards North Macedonia and Greece. The fine motorway continues for another 60km south of Niš and then narrows down into a normal road, entering the Gorge of Grdelica, where caution is also advised.
Tolls are paid for highways Niš - Belgrade, Niš - Leskovac (south towards North Macedonia and Greece) and Niš – Sofia.

Get around[edit]
Map of Niš
On foot[edit]
Downtown area is easily accessible on foot from the bus or train stations, and most hotels and hostels.
For a walk across the whole city in any direction, be prepared to spend at least two or three hours.
Niš is in a small valley, but is surrounded by hills. It is not as bad as in Belgrade, whose central part virtually lies on a number of hills, but in Niš, too, as soon as you get away from broader downtown area, you may find yourself climbing.

By bus[edit]
Bus station in Niš
Niš has well-established bus lines. Most buses have clear signs stating their directions, and almost all will at one point stop at the central city square, near the Fortress, or five minutes from it, at the King Alexander Square, near the School of Law and Army Headquarters building. There are ticket sellers in the buses. A single ticket, valid for one ride from point A to point B, inside the city zone costs 80 (as of June 2023) Serbian dinars. Weekly and monthly tickets are also available at discount prices in small ticket shops near most bus stops.

By taxi[edit]
Taxi fares range between 150 and 300 dinars, depending on distance (start - 95 dinars + 45 dinars per km). Make sure the taxi driver turns on the taximeter, just in case. Taxis are available practically on every street, and are also reachable by phone - the local 'taxi' phone numbers cover the range from 9701 to 9721 - if you call from your cell phone, don't forget the country and area code +381 18. Pay phones with instructions in five languages are available throughout the town - a phone card must be purchased in any newspaper shop if these are to be used. Most drivers will speak at least basic English. If not, just write the name of the place, site, hotel, or street you are going to and it will be fine. Niš is relatively small and all taxi drivers know all the streets by heart and do not need to consult maps. Taxi rides out of the town (including to Belgrade airport) may be agreed on with the taxi driver (sometimes in a private arrangement, at a much reduced price), but some caution is advised here.

By car[edit]
If you come by car, using hotel or hostel parking lots is advised. Car theft is not very common, but foreign license plates and unsecured vehicles parked downtown may be attractive to petty criminals, especially at night. Parking is charged in two zones in downtown area, at about €0.25-0.35/hour. There are clear traffic signs marking the two zones (red - Zone 1, up to 1 hour; green - Zone 2, up to 3 hours, Monday-Friday 07:00-21:00, Saturday 07:00-14:00). This can be paid with a small card purchased in any newspaper shop, where the driver is expected to tick the date and time and leave the card under the windshield of the car so that the traffic warden can see it. Alternatively, you may pay using your cellphone (send an SMS with your license plate number to 9181 for Zone 1 or 9182 for Zone 2 - for instance, NI123456). Failure to pay may result in a €12 fine.
There are a few rent-a-car services in the city. You may check out Euroturs Nis (http://www.euroturs-nis.co.yu/english.php?page=4),Inter [dead link] Rent-a-car (http://www.rentacarnis.rs) or http://rentalex-rentacar.com/ Rentalex rent a car Nis. Rentalex Rent a car Nis is a young agency to rent a car from Nis.  It offers cars from the Volkswagen family. Cars have gasoline engines from 1.2 liters to provide extremely low power costs to be more economical. Expect prices ranging from €20-50 a day, depending on the car type and length of lease. The cars are usually fully ensured, but make sure the clerks you talk to have made this clear prior to any arrangement. Rent-a-car is a good option for sightseeing, as there are many interesting things to visit in the 100 km vicinity of Niš  in all directions. The roads are getting increasingly better, but be prepared for possible surprises outside main highways leading to Belgrade, Thessaloniki, or Sofia.

Talk[edit]
Young people usually speak enough English to communicate. Some speak it extremely well. Professionals, such as hotel personnel, speak English and another foreign language. As Niš is a university centre, if you run into some of its 30,000 students, you will have no problems talking to them.
Other officials, such as police officers, have had some basic English lessons, but do not expect miracles.
There can be more problems communicating with the elderly. Still, if you encounter a group of four or five persons, there is a good chance one will know enough English to help you get by.
There are many signposts all around the city in Serbian Cyrilic script followed by English translation which should help you find your way to hotels, central city institutions and sites. Familiarization with basic Cyrilic script would be a good idea, because Serbian national laws encourage traditional script, and Latin script, once all-present in the former Yugoslavia, is becoming more rare. The Latin script is dominant on advertisements and in shops, though.
Occasionally, you may encounter people who speak German, French or Russian, sometimes Italian or Spanish, but this is not very common.

See[edit]
Mediana, ancient mosaic floors
Niš is packed with historical sites worth visiting, dating from various periods.

43.31166721.9238891 Skull Tower (Cele kula). Skull Tower was built in the 19th century by the Turks from the skulls of the Serbs killed in the battle of Cegar, near Nis, in May 1809. It is rectangular, about 3 m (9.8 ft) high and was built from quicklime, sand and the skinned skulls, upon the order of Khurshid Pasha who had first sent the skulls filled with cotton to the Sultan in Istanbul. Each side of the tower has 14 rows with 17 openings where the skulls were embedded. There were 952 skulls, but today only 58 have remained. The rest were pulled out to be buried or were lost in time. In 1892 a chapel was built around the tower, according to the design of the Belgrade architect Dimitrie T. Leko. The skulls are situated inside the small chapel consisting of four glass walls. Europe came to know about this horrible monument of Serbian martyrdom from the work "Voyage to the East" by the French poet Alphonse de Lamartine (1790 - 1869).   
43.325921.89542 Niš Fortress (On the Nišava riverbank). Over the remains of a Roman military camp, then Roman town called Naissus, and finally the remains of a destroyed Byzantine fortification, the Turks built a strong fortress at the beginning of 18th century. The construction of this fortress lasted from 1719 to 1723. It was built with the help of local laborers, Istanbul stonecutters and bricklayers. Beside those well saved walls and gates, numerous facilities remain from various periods, such as the armory, Turkish steam bath, Turkish post station, Bali-mosque, powderroom and prison.   
43.37011721.9628043 Rusalia Church. Church of Holy Trinity of Rusalia sits above the village of Gornji Matejevac. Rusalia is the most attractive ancient structure in Niš. The church was built after the order of a local Byzantine dignitary in the first half of 11th century.  
 Kazandzijsko sokace (Tinkers alley), Kopitareva Street. This is an old urban quarter. It was built in the first half of 18th century. It was a street full of tinkers and other craftsmen, together with their houses coming from Turkish period. Unfortunately, only some of those are preserved today and protected by the state. The street is packed with cafes, and is a favorite site for the visitors.   
43.32356221.8982034 Serbian Wartime Parliament Building - Birthplace of Yugoslavia (Officers' Club Exhibition Space). The building of the "Youth Home" Restaurant was erected in 1890. At first, the "Bulevar" restaurant was situated in the building. The Army General Staff bought the building in 1903 and turned it into an Officers' Home, which remained there until 1941. At the beginning of World War I this building was in the focus of public attention as the centre of the political life of Serbia. On December 7, 1914 a war session of the National Assembly was held there. On that occasion the Assembly made the "Niš Declaration", which explicitly stated the military objectives of Serbia - to fight for the liberation and unification of the Balkan peoples. On May 6, 1915 the Yugoslav Congress was held in this building. The Congress issued the "Niš Resolution" which once again emphasized the need for national unity.  
43.33055621.88755 Red Cross Concentration Camp (Crveni Krst) (in the city centre, close to the central bus station.). The first Nazi concentration camp in the former Yugoslavia, constructed in 1941. One of the few fully preserved concentration camps in Europe, almost intact since 1944, 'Lager Nis' was the venue of the dramatic escape in February 1942 when about 100 prisoners managed to flee.   
43.30521.87256 Holocaust memorial on Bubanj hill (On the hill of Bubanj, south of the city centre). a monumental sculpture representing three enormous fists was erected in honor of 10,000 people, mostly Serbs and Romanies, but also about 1,100 Jews, executed in this place during World War Two. The monument is the work of sculptor Ivan Sabolic and was erected in 1963.   
Further afield[edit]
43.31027821.9488897 Mediana (on the road Niš - Niška Banja). The 4th-century birthplace of Emperor Constantine the Great. This ancient historical site is a testimony of the wealth and glory of the imperial Naissus . The remains of imperial palace, together with peristyle (range of surrounding columns) have been discovered. Luxury villas with mosaic floors, sacral objects (baptistery room), farming buildings with pithos, Roman bathrooms, water tanks, fort remains etc testify about Naissus culture and wealth from the times of Emperor Constantine the Great, who was born in Nis. Constantine is best remembered in modern times for three great achievements: the Edict of Milan in 313, which fully legalized Christianity in the Empire, the Council of Nicaea in 325, which made the Trinity the orthodox teaching, and the founding of Constantinople, today's Istanbul, in 330.   
 Mausoleum of Count Alexei Kirillovich Vronsky - lover of Anna Karenina (in Gornji Adrovac (municipality of Aleksinac)). The Holy Trinity Church near Nis was built in the 19th century in commemoration of the death of Nikolai Rayevsky. Rayevsky was celebrated as Count Vronsky in Tolstoy's famous novel Anna Karenina. 
43.29333322.0061118 Niška Banja (Niš Spa) (a couple of kilometers to the southeast). There is a large park and some restaurants to accompany the nice view out over the valley. The spa is famous for its mildly radioactive hot water springs which help treat rheumatic disorders. Heart conditions are also successfully treated in the vicinity. 5 km away from the spa are Sicevacka and Jelasnicka Gorges, state-protected natural reserves with intact scenery, ancient monasteries, and endemic species.   
 Villa of the "ill" Prince George (in Gornja Toponica). In 1926, the heir to the Serbian throne, Prince George Karadjordjevic, was committed to the mental hospital on grounds of insanity by his younger brother, Alexander, who was then crowned king. The prince was kept in the spacious villa locked within the mental hospital for 15 years. After World War II, his family were declared state enemies by the communist regime but George was allowed to retire in Belgrade as the only member of the royal family in the country. 
Do[edit]
Football: FK Radnički Niš play soccer in SuperLiga, Serbia's top tier. Their home ground is Čair Stadium (capacity 18,000) 1 km southeast of town centre.
Nisville international jazz festival is held every August on the Summer Stage of the Fortress. With numerous international participants, it has been the trademark of the city since the 1990s.
Nis Choral Festival is an international festival of choral music, held on the Summer Stage biennially (in July).
Nis Acting Festival is an international festival of film-acting, once the biggest film festival in the former Yugoslavia (along with the Pula festival in Croatia), with an international reputation. It is traditionally organized in the last week of August, every year. (http://www.fsnis.org.yu/ [dead link] - in Serbian)
Nimus is the classical music festival held in late autumn (October-November). Nis is also a centre of classical music in this part of Serbia, with the growing Academy of Arts and the second-by-size Philharmonic Orchestra in the country. The classical music festival includes performances in the Symphony Orchestra building and the National Theater building, with concerts, chamber, symphonic music, and opera.
Nisomnia popular music international festival is organized in September.
Buy[edit]
 Market (between the fortress and the bus station). The lively market is worth a visit. You can get almost anything you can imagine, and hundreds of local smallholders sell their fruit and veg in the covered market. Also farm made soft cheese. 
Kalca
 Forum shopping mall. The biggest shopping mall in Niš. It is a huge, three-storey building, with virtually all kinds of shops: clothes, shoes, music, stationery, computer equipment, unlocked mobile phones... you name it. There are also several bars, coffee shops and one or two restaurants where you can refresh yourself after your spending spree. 
 Roda Centar (formerly Mercator Centar) (2 km from the city centre: catch a taxi to get there). A nice selection of shops and supermarket with a lot of foreign food products. Since the opening of Forum some shows had to close in Roda due to competition. (updated Nov 2019)
 Underground passage. another trademark of Niš, virtually an entire street under the central city promenade. It throngs with small shops of all kinds. They can be a bit cheaper since they often fail to pay VAT. 
Niš hosts a variety of grand shopping malls and hypermarkets located on all outskirts of the city, where practically all goods can be purchased. The malls are usually a bit cheaper than small shops and visiting them is advisable if you should need supplies for a longer period of time (food, clothing, stationery, equipment). Major streets contain numerous signs directing a traveler to one of these (Mercator Center, Tempo, Metro, Interex, Impex Mega Market).
Souvenirs are available in small shops in the Fortress, in the central squares of the city, or in shops near historical locations.
The local currency is the dinar. Serbian law does not allow that you pay in euros, dollars or any other currency in the shops, so, if you use cash, you must convert the money into dinars. This may be done in any bank or exchange office, and there are many in the city centre (including some automatic exchange machines in the very core of the city). In addition, a variety of credit cards are welcome in most city shops. Vendors are legally obliged to provide fiscal stubs after any transaction. In practice, many places such as hotels will accept euro notes and give change in dinars.

Eat[edit]
Niš is a food paradise. It is said that Niš produces the best burek, a sort of greasy, phyllo dough pastry filled with cheese or ground meat that is popular throughout the Balkan peninsula. It resembles a cheese pie, but contains more fat and has stronger flavour. Also, by general consent, it is much more delicious.  Some vendors sell other varieties such as apple, spinach or pizza burek (frequently just a combination between the meat and cheese Burek). Traditionally, you eat burek with yoghurt.
The Shopska salad is another phenomenal, yet simple, dish to be found in Niš.  It consists of chopped up tomato, cucumber, onion, oil, a little salt and a generous topping of a domestic feta-like cheese.  The local feta is usually less sharp than feta typically found in the west by a considerable margin.  Most websites with recipes simply call it a brined sheep cheese and the French are known to make a similar feta. Another local trademark is the 'Urnebes' salad, literally translated as 'chaos' or 'pandemonium' - basically cream cheese in oil mixed with ground peppers, garlic and sometimes sesame.
Pljeskavica, sometimes referred to as the "Balkans Burger," is ubiquitous.  Typically it contains a concoction of spiced ground beef, pork and lamb.  It may be served in a bun, pita bread or by itself on a plate depending on where you get one.  It usually is accompanied by onions, a paprika based sauce and in the case of the fast-food-esque vendors you'll have a variety of sauces and toppings to accompany it.
Chevapchichi (usually spelt with accented "c" instead of "ch", i.e. ćevapčići) is similarly made from spiced ground beef, pork and lamb.  The mixture is formed into a 2-to-3 inch long sausage and served with onions and a paprika based sauce.  Sometimes it will be served in a pita bread for easy, "on-the-go" consumption.
Other favourites include pizza, of which the Serbs do a splendid job, and various pasta dishes.
For those who do not wish to experiment too much, there are many traditional bakeries and pastry shops, and the inevitable McDonald's on the central city square.
Most restaurants have some options for vegetarians. Vegans might encounter more problems, although most are usually solved with the help of kind local restaurant owners. During traditional fasting periods, especially in April before Orthodox Easter holidays, many restaurants offer fish and non-animal food, including some specialties.

Budget[edit]
In the city centre[edit]
43.31945721.8928681 Etno Ćumurko, Milorada Veljkovića Špaje 4. (updated May 2022)
43.31776421.8998822 Ekspres Mali Vikend, Nikole Pašića 2. (updated May 2022)
43.31884921.8996253 Pasta Bar 2x2, Sinđelićev trg 25. (updated May 2022)
At the Niš Fortress[edit]
43.32412521.8924914 Pekara TVRĐAVA, Đuke Dinić 17. (updated May 2022)
Around the train station[edit]
43.31555221.8760265 Pekara Mićko, Dimitrija Tucovića 27 (Opposite of the school (gimnazija)). Small bakery specialising in burek. One of the better burek shops in Niš. The burek is less greasy than in some other bakeries. (updated May 2022)
Mid-range[edit]
43.3213921.900836 Restoran Riblja konoba, Kralja Stefana Prvovenčanog 5, ☏ +381 18-257728. 10:00 - 22:00. Fish restaurant in the centre, where both the cooking and the interior is old-fashioned. The menus are in both English and Serbian, and the waiters speak English. They have salt and fresh-water fish, and other seafood such as squid. During the summer there are tables outside. The cheapest meal would be fried fish (girice) and a potato salad (krompir salata) for about €2 (March 2015). The other dishes are more expensive. (updated May 2022)
Splurge[edit]


Drink[edit]
Tap water is drinkable in Niš. Locals like to boast that, in addition to Vienna, Niš has the best water in central and southeast Europe. Although this claim can probably be contested, the water from the central supply system is drunk by most residents. More cautious visitors are advised to buy bottled water in any shop: a variety of brands are available, and Serbian mineral waters are very good, especially Knjaz Miloš, Vlasinska Rosa, Mivela and Heba. You can also try Jamnica and Jana which are imported from Croatia.
There is a throng of cafes in downtown Niš, most of which serve various coffee drinks, beers and liquors.  Some specialty bars serve a more limited scope of beverages. There is also a branch of Costa Coffee on the central square.
Local wines are usually not the best of quality. The more expensive the better. International brands are offered in most bars.
Rakija, a powerful brandy made from various fruits (usually plum or apricot), is a local favorite. Attention: some kinds may be pretty strong for a newbie.

Nightclubs[edit]
Nightclubs in Niš are somewhat different than those typically found in Belgrade or in other larger cities. Firstly, there is relatively little dancing and most clubs don't feature a dancefloor.  Instead, clubs have tables and most people stand at their table and drink, while listening to the music. Tables must be reserved beforehand, though this is usually for free.Secondly electronic dance music is quite rare, with most clubs playing folk music instead.
Most clubs have only a Facebook page, so check that to see what they're doing that day.

43.3213121.894431 Feedback, Davidova (Next to the defunct synagogue). This placed is alternative, playing rock and metal and occasionally electronical dance music. 
43.3185321.894092 [dead link] Vavilon, Nikole Pašića 36. 
 [dead link] Simphony club, Generala Milojka Lešjanina. Unusual for playing electronical dance music. Also a somewhat "fancy" club. 
43.3214621.894793 Cubo klub, Balkanska 2. Lively atmosphere, and often crowded. They play mostly folk music. 
 Diamond, Prijezdina 4. 
Sleep[edit]
Hotels[edit]
View over the city of Nis, Serbia. Seen from Hotel Aleksandar
Niška Banja (the Spa) has a couple of older but decent hotels, such as Ozren, with prices from €24 for a single room incl breakfast. Alternatively, it may be possible to arrange a home-stay in Niška Banja. The spa is a few kilometers away from the town, so a bus or taxi ride to the centre is inevitable.

 The Ambassador Hotel. The tallest building on the central square, dominates the downtown area, and is one of the few options for visitors on a budget. The rooms are not as cheap as one might expect and feel a little outdated but they are comfortable enough and the hotel is in a great location. If you want a real Yugo experience, try this hotel, dark brown formica fittings, appliances that might or might not work, and an amazing restaurant with retro sculptures and chandeliers, a flashback to the 1960s. €42 for an apartment with en-suite. Expect ~€30 breakfast included. 
 My Place (just by the Nišava rive). In a quiet quarter in the downtown area, a couple of minutes from the central square on foot From €65.50 (2014). 
 Niški cvet (Nis Flower). Expect €50 or more/night, with buffet breakfast included.. 
 Regent Club Hotel, Obrenoviceva Street. Entrance is via Gorca shopping mall in the city's main promenade street 
 Aleksandar Palace, Njegoseva 81a, ☏ +381 18 562 333, fax: +381 18 562 056. A hotel on the hills overlooking the city from the southern side with a small pool. around €60-80/night. 
43.3195721.89751 Panorama, 51 Svetolika Rankovića Str,, info@panoramalux.co.rs. A bit more remote up the hill, but also with a nice view of the city, and with a bit lower prices. Taxi needed from over here, especially upwards. Sgl/dbl €45/55 (2014). 
43.3207521.898012 New City Hotel and Restaurant, Vožda Karadorđa 12 (Centre of Niš), ☏ +381 18 504 800, info@newcityhotelnis.com. Accommodation, coffee bar and a restaurant with international cuisine, conference rooms with simultaneous translation. The hotel has 48 rooms and suites, two large halls for conferences and banquets and a cafe, bar & restaurant. Free internet access throughout the hotel, separate parking space. (updated Jan 2017)
Hostels[edit]
43.3206921.892313 Sweet-Hostel Nis', Milorada Veljkovica Spaje 11/4 (There is a map on the website). Another hostel in Nis. It is in the centre of town, 5 minutes from The square of King Milan (main city square). They offer comfortable rooms and welcoming, hospitable service for a small amount of money. Hot showers and free towels are there as well, as is a fully equipped kitchen and a shared room with TV, DVD & very slow Internet access. Hostel single/double 1650/2200 dinars; apartments single/double 2200/3200 dinars, including tax (2014). 
43.309821.86264 Hostel Kosmopolit, Anastasa Jovanovica 15 (in `Ledena Stena` area: taxis are cheap, or you can use a direct bus line number 1 `Ledena stena - Niska banja` exiting at the station called `MIN naselje`), ☏ +381 63 472705, hostelkosmopolit@hotmail.com. Hostel `Kosmopolit` is a beautiful contemporary building with 120 m² of residential space and a spacious garden. Services and amenities include free high-speed internet, WiFi, garden barbecue grill and bar, self-service kitchen with dining room and balcony, lounge room with self-service bar, cable TV and computer with internet, air-conditioning in every room, 24 hour service and assistance. €11 per bed (8-bed dorms and private rooms). 
Stay safe[edit]
Nis is a very safe city. In summer months, even late into the night, you will see people walking through its streets with no fear whatsoever. In winter months, late at night, and in suburban areas, some reasonable caution is warranted. As with any other travel, keep your money, cell phones, travel documents and other valuables in secure places. As a pedestrian, follow regulations, including zebra crossings and green lights, even when you see locals ignoring them, as traffic wardens may jump out of nowhere and fine you.

Emergencies[edit]
In case of an emergency, call 192 (police), 193 (fire), 194 (ambulance) or the European standard 112.
In case of injury or illness, the place to go is the Hitna Pomoc (Emergency Aid Centre) of Nis Clinical Centre. If the urgency is not total, you may ask for help in the state Clinical Centre (follow the white signs with this name in the streets) or any of the numerous small private clinics scattered downtown. Be aware that not all medical facilities are well-stocked or have personnel that speak foreign languages, including English. Cash payment on the spot will almost certainly be required for medical services. Consult the embassy of your country, if possible.
Serbia has a social insurance agreement with most European nations. If you get a form from your local health insurance you can obtain free treatment in the local hospitals. You would first need to go to the national social insurance (RZZO) branch office in Niš to hand in the form and get another form for the local hospital or health centre. Since this procedure is complicated to complete without Serbian language skills it may be easier to visit a private doctor or polyclinic. Prices are very reasonable by European standards, starting from €10 for a simple consultation with a PD.
Pharmacies are located all over the central city zone. They are marked with green crosses in front of the entrance. Their working hours are 07:00 to 21:00 or even 22:00 every day, including weekends. The central pharmacy, located in front of the National Theater building, a 2-minute walk from the central city square, is open 24/7. Serbia is still very liberal in terms of purchasing medication, so you are allowed to buy practically any basic drugs over the counter (painkillers, fever medication). However, for antibiotics a prescription is required. Prior consultation with a physician would be a good idea, though.

Go next[edit]
 Sofia and beyond to the east (Buses and trains both available). 
 Skopje. Buses and trains both available 
 Belgrade (frequent bus and train service). 
 Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro or Croatia (can catch a bus). 
 Kopaonik National Park (Take the bus from the Niš bus station to Kruševac bus station at 07:25. Then the bus to Kopaonik at 10:00. The bus stops near the Konaci complex in Kopaonik. The total trip costs around €10.). 
 Kosovska Mitrovica, Kosovo (twice daily going over Novi Pazar (Serbia)). Arrive to Mitrovica there should change bus if going to Priština or somewhere else. 
 Priština, Kosovo (only one direct bus). 
 Germany, Swiss and France. Companies like Eurolines-Lasta, Touring, Jedinstvo or Niš-Ekspres, have long-distance buses to almost any bigger city. 


Routes through Niš




 Podujeva ←  Merdar ←

 W  E 

→  Gradinje/Kalotina → Dragoman 








This city travel guide to Niš is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Niš&oldid=4786911"