
Noordhoek is a seaside town between Kommetjie and Chapmans Peak on the Cape Peninsula. Its shoreline and its long, wide, sandy beach stretch south to the neighbouring village of Kommetjie. Near the southern end of this beach is the wreck of the steamship Kakapo.


Understand[edit]
Long Beach, Noordhoek
The Kakapo ran aground in 1900, when the captain mistook Chapmans' Peak for the Cape of Good Hope and put the helm over to port.
Noordhoek is a small scattered community of houses, often with sea views and has a large horse population as riding on the long sandy beach is common. Many artists live in Noordhoek.

Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
From the airport follow the N2 south-west towards Cape Town. Turn on to the M3 south and follow it to the end. 
Turn right onto Steenberg Road (M42) and then left onto Ou Kaapse Weg (M64) which goes into Noordhoek. Follow the road over the mountain. After about 7 km, turn right into Silvermine Road.
From Hout Bay follow Chapman's Peak Drive (M6).

See[edit]
Noordhoek beach is a spectacular beach on the peninsula. It is 7-km long and unspoilt by commercial development.
Chapman's Peak provides a majestic backdrop to the peaceful village.
Cape Point Vineyards has a vineyard that produces some of South Africa's best white wines.
Do[edit]
Walk or ride a horse along the spectacular 7-km white sand beach. You can walk south to Kommetjie, passing the rusty wreck of the Kakapo, shipwrecked in 1900.
Visit the many painters, sculptors and potters who create their art in this beautiful valley.
There is a huge variety of birds to watch in the area. From black eagles to several species of sunbird, wetland and sea birds.
The Western Leopard Toad is indigenous to the area and an endangered species. You will see them jumping across the road in the mating season (August/September).
There are many beautiful walks in the Sivermine Mountain Range, which is part of the Table Mountain National Park. there are also several geocaches in the area.
You can hire a mountain bike in the Noordhoek Farm Village and follow the trails in the Silvermine Mountains.
-34.087218.36061 Chapman's Peak. 2–3 hours, non-strenuous with breathtaking views of Hout Bay and Noordhoek and rich flora, especially proteas. The trail begins on the Hout Bay side of the peak about 750 m from the main view-point on scenic Chapman's Peak Drive. Park by the trail head and follow the path out of the picnic area. It soon forks but both routes take you to the same place. Turn right at the next junction, from where the path is clear. Return same route. No permit required.   
Buy[edit]
Shop in the Noordhoek Farm village.
Arts and crafts in the Noordhoek Farm Village in Village lane, between Chapman's Peak Drive and Silvermine Road.
-34.12404918.3885721 Longbeach Mall, cnr Buller Louw Drive and Sunnydale Road, Noordhoek, ☏ +27 21 785-5955, longbeach@marriott.co.za. 
Learn[edit]
 False Bay College, Chasmay Road, Sunnydale, ☏ +27 21 785-2597, fax: +27 21 785-6930. Offers a variety of post-school courses. 
Eat[edit]
 Food Barn. This restaurant in the Noordhoek Farm Village is run by top chef Franck Dangereux. The food is exquisite but portion sizes are small. Open daily for breakfast and lunch, dinners served on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays only. 
Toad in the Village (formerly The Nag's Head) is an English-style pub with good food and beer. Also located in the Noordhoek Farm Village. It is open daily for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
Cafe Roux (also in the Noordhoek Farm village) serves delicious lunches under the oak trees. Features live music and the occasional evening braai (barbeque) in the summer.
The Red Herring on the corner of Beach and Pine Roads serves good pizza as well as traditional South African fare.
Thorfynns at Monkey Valley has great views over the beach and good seafood. Don't expect a quick meal.
The Noordhoek Cafe is in the Noordhoek Garden Emporium, on the corner of Noordhoek Main Road and Katzenellenbogen Road. Enjoy coffee, cakes and light lunches in a shady garden atmosphere.
Long Beach Mall, just down the road in Sun Valley (corner of Buller Louw Drive and Sunnydale Road) has a Spur, Ocean Basket, Mugg & Bean, Wimpy, Kentucky Fried Chicken, O'Briens, Fresh Stop and Macdonalds as well as a few other coffee and sandwich shops.
Sleep[edit]
-34.09939818.3841591 Sitara Country Lodge, 10 Guinea Fowl Way, Noordhoek 7979 (Follow directions to Noordhoek. You will see a brown tourist sign for Sitara in Silvermine Rd, between Chapman's Peak Drive and Ou Kaapse Weg, just around the corner from the Noordhoek Farm Village), ☏ +27 21 789-1622, fax: +27 21 789-2953, info@sitara.co.za. Check-in: 14:00, check-out: 11:00. In the south of the Cape Peninsula. Ideal base for exploring the natural beauty of the Cape Town area. Own transport required. From R325 single, R450 double. 
-34.1147518.38482 Horizon holiday cottages, 9 Sea Cottage Dr, ☏ +27 21 785-1604. Check-in: 14:00, check-out: 10:30. Offers fully-equipped self-catering family cottages and cabanas in a rural coastal valley suburb of Cape Town. Easy access to the beaches, the city and its many attractions, R500. 
Drink[edit]
The Toad in the Noordhoek Farm Village is the local English style pub with good beer.
Skebangas in the Red Herring restaurant in Beach Road is a lively local pub, noisy, boisterous and great fun. Enjoy the spectacular views of the ocean from their deck
10 minutes drive over Ou Kaapse Weg is the start of the Constantia wine route.
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Noordhoek is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Noordhoek&oldid=4167264"