
North Myrtle Beach is a small town in South Carolina with approximately 15,000 residents.  North Myrtle Beach proudly has two claims to fame.  It is the birthplace of South Carolina's state dance, the shag.  It is also the hometown of Vanna White of "Wheel of Fortune" fame.


Understand[edit]
Prior to incorporation in 1968 North Myrtle Beach consisted of the individual towns of Cherry Grove Beach, Ocean Drive Beach, Crescent Beach, and Windy Hill Beach.  It is part of the Grand Strand, and usually advertised along with Myrtle Beach on the whole.  Once there however, you'll see that it has a distinctly separate personality of its own.  More laid back than its "big sister" you'll find that it is a close knit community with lots of community involvement, pride and spirit.  There is more of a true family atmosphere and a less transient feel in the area.
Closer to the North Carolina border, commercial and residential development is not quite as advanced yet as Myrtle Beach proper since the city tries to balance that growth with quality of life for their residents.  As desirable available waterfront property is rapidly disappearing however, North Myrtle Beach is also taking advantage of the current real estate market and adding marinas on the Intracoastal Waterway along with upscale housing and resort accommodations to keep up with demand.

Get in[edit]
The major area airport is Myrtle Beach International (MYR).  Located about 15 miles south of the North Myrtle Beach border and east of Bypass Hwy. 17, it is served by the following airlines: Delta, Spirit, United, and U.S. Air.  Direct flights may be difficult to find depending on the season, but flying to a major hub such as Atlanta then taking a short hop to the area should not be a problem.
Grand Strand Regional Airport is actually the closest airport to North Myrtle Beach, and serves mostly chartered or private flights.
From Interstate 95, the easiest way to town would be to take the exit for Hwy. 9 in Dillon, SC and continue south towards Myrtle Beach.  Hwy. 9 will then merge with Hwy. 17, so just continue south on Hwy. 17 for the rest of the ride.
Vehicle travel will become easier once the direct connection from SC Hwy. 31 (Carolina Bays Parkway) via the Main Street Connector (North Myrtle Beach Connector) is completed, but funding was only approved in June, 2005 and construction has just begun.  Traveling in and out for hurricane evacuations, as well as north and south along the Strand in general will be much easier once the connector is complete.

Get around[edit]
Travel around North Myrtle Beach is best done with your own or a rented vehicle.  Although taxi service is available, it can be a bit expensive. Yellow Cab of North Myrtle Beach (843-420-1200) operates in the area.  Livery service is also available for hire.  Be sure to call ahead with your itinerary for reservations, especially when making travel arrangements for a large group.

See[edit]
Do[edit]
Besides the obvious choices of visiting the beach or playing golf, there are plenty of ways to enjoy your visit to North Myrtle Beach. Summer visitors enjoy watersports ranging from deep sea or sport fishing on Capt. Juel's Charters or the Hurricane Fleet out of Little River Inlet, or jet ski rentals, parasailing, and banana boat rides through Bob's Watersports in Cherry Grove or MB Watersports in Little River. Year round from the Little River Inlet you can test your luck on casino cruises by the Southern Elegance fleet, although most prefer the SunCruz Casino. Along the Intracoastal Waterway you can take scenic or dinner cruises on the Barefoot Princess. Family activities in the area include mini-golf venues, the arcade in the Crescent Shores section at Ocean Drive Pavilion, and a visit to Alligator Adventure. There's plenty of shopping in the area, from outlet malls to art galleries and antiquing. Live theatre includes shows at the Alabama Theatre, the House of Blues, and Tribute! right on Main Street. Horseback riding is available in the Cherry Grove section at Inlet Point Plantation Stables. If you don't mind a short ride over the border to Sunset Beach, North Carolina, then don't miss the chance to visit the Ingram Planetarium. Motorcycle enthusiasts will enjoy Bike Week each May and October in addition to the Atlantic Beach Bikefest over Memorial Day Weekend. A word to the wise here; be sure to check with your hotel or resort regarding motorcycle accommodations. Many homeowner associations and hotels do NOT allow bikes on property. So check in advance in order to avoid disappointment at arrival!

 Hawaiian Rumble Miniature Golf. A 50-foot volcano erupts at various times during your time at the course. Hawaiian Rumble plays host to the annual U.S. Pro-Mini-Golf Masters Championship. (updated May 2020)
33.81859-78.672461 OD Pavilion - Sunset Grill, 91 S Ocean Blvd, ☏ +1 843 280-0715. Events center and where shag dancing used to take place. 
Buy[edit]
Over 64 Shops at Barefoot Landing in North Myrtle Beach. Barefoot Landing is a shopper's paradise with everything from high fashion to surf wear and for every age and style.  Name brand shops and one of a kind boutiques can be found at Barefoot Landing.

Eat[edit]
There's definitely a wide variety of restaurants in North Myrtle Beach.  One of the highest rated is SeaBlue Tapas Bar & Restaurant . One of the favored Italian restaurants is Umbertos Pittsburgh Italian Trattoria located in Barefoot Landing.  With authentic cuisine, a continental atmosphere and reasonable pricing you'll be swept away.  Or try Martini's Continental Dining & Piano Bar for some fun!  At Barefoot Landing you'll also find Greg Norman's own Australian Grille overlooking the beautiful Intracoastal Waterway with spectacular sunset views.  For a more special or intimate setting, you might want to try Chestnut Hill or The Parson's Table to make a lasting impression.  Logan's Roadhouse is a locals favorite for casual dining.  The food and service are super for the price.  For some down-home southern cooking, try the Cracker Barrel.  Whatever you're hungry for, you'll find it in North Myrtle Beach.

Drink[edit]
In North Myrtle Beach, Barefoot Landing probably has it all in one easy location on Hwy. 17.  Try the Mad Boar Restaurant and Brewery to sample house ales and beers.  Head over to the House of Blues.  Then take a short ride up Hwy. 17 north to Hwy. 9, head north on Hwy. 9 and you'll find H.B. Spokes Saloon in Longs, with drinks, entertainment, and good times. CrawDaddy's also has a great karaoke night, to accompany their shellfish selection.
If caffeine is your thing instead, try getting out to Seattle's Best Coffee, Port City Java, or the Atlanta Bread Company for gourmet blends.

Sleep[edit]
Resorts[edit]
 Avista Resort, 300 N Ocean Blvd, toll-free: +1-800-968-8986. Oceanfront hotel rooms and condos. Amenities include the three pools and spa tubs, children's pool, fitness center, Treetop Lounge, and restaurants. The hotel also offers a business center, free high-speed Internet access, free parking, 24-hour front desk service, and porter service. 
 The Ashworth, 102 N Ocean Blvd. Luxurious two, three and four bedroom oceanfront condos. Amenities include indoor and outdoor pools and spa, lazy river, children's pool, fitness center, outdoor grills, private beach access. Amenities also include free high-speed Internet access and free parking. 
 Beach Cove Resort, 4800 South Ocean Blvd. 
 Crescent Shores, 1625 South Ocean Boulevard. 
 Edgewater Inn, 4622 S. Ocean Blvd. 
 Barefoot Resort & Golf, 2151 Bridge View Ct, toll-free: +1 877 585-9357. Barefoot Yacht Club Villas features amenities with private balconies, high-speed Internet access, Barefoot Landing, North Myrtle Beach's largest sandy bottom pool, as well as Barefoot Resort Championship Golf on 4 World Class Myrtle Beach golf courses. 
 Seaside Resort, 2301 South Ocean Blvd., ☏ +1-433-5710. Seaside condominium resort features beautiful 1, 2 and 3 bedroom condos and a wide variety of recreational amenities. 
 Tilghman Beach & Golf Resort, 1819 North Ocean Boulevard, ☏ +1 843-280-0913, toll-free: +1-888-280-0913. Local:. Luxury North Myrtle Beach condos on Tilghman Lake facing the Atlantic Ocean. The resort includes golf packages, a lazy river, pool and other on-site luxury amenities. 
Go next[edit]
Nearby is the small community Briarcliffe Acres.


Routes through North Myrtle Beach




Wilmington ← Little River ←

 N  S 

→ Briarcliffe Acres → Myrtle Beach









This city travel guide to North Myrtle Beach is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=North_Myrtle_Beach&oldid=4419323"