
Oba is a town in Anambra State, Nigeria. Oba is the former  headquarters of the Idemili-South Local Government Area in Anambra State.


Understand[edit]
Oba has 9 villages which are named below

Abime
Aborji
Ezelle
Isu
Ogbenwe
Ogwugwu
Okuzu
Umuogali
Urueze
Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
 Anambra International Airport, Umueri (LOS IATA), Ivite 432104, Umuleri. You can fly in from most states in the country like (Lagos, Akure, Abuja and other part of the country. 
Once you get into Anambra through the airport at Umueri, all you need to do is to board a bus that plies Oba, it is a popular town in Anambra State, so any bus or cab you board from the airport will take you straight to Oba.

By bus[edit]
There are a lot of bus transportation systems in Nigeria by which you can get to Oba, Anambra State.
They include:

Transport Company of Anambra State (TRACAS)
GUO Transport
ABC Transport
Okeyson
GIGM (God is Good Mobility)
Peace Mass Transit
And many others.
With all of these transportation systems in place, you can get into Oba easily. In fact, technology has even made it easier as you can book a seat and choose your preferred seat right from your internet connected smartphone. After booking, go to the bus terminal with your receipt generated from your mobile and you are ready to journey to Oba.

Get around[edit]
Getting around in Oba is not so difficult, you can get around by boarding bus, buses are available to ply all routes in Oba, tell the bus driver your specific direction and if he is going to ply the road, he will let you know and you can hop in and the driver will take you there.
Another way to get around in Oba is by getting on a bike (motorcycle), usually a one-way transportation as the rider is just taking you straight to your destination and he/she will not stop at any area or busstop to drop anybody as he is moving you straight to your destination.
The smoothest, best but yet expensive way to get around in Oba is the usage of the car-hailing transport systems like Uber, Bolt and others.
This car hailing systems makes life very easy because all you need to do is to book your ride online and a driver would be assigned to you to pick you up from your home and drop you at your preferred location with an air conditioned car and it is very comfortable, although it is a more expensive way to get around as compared to Bus or Motorcycles.

See[edit]
 Rojenny Tourist and Game Village Oba, 11, Onitsha-Owerri. A recreational centre for recreation, sightseeing, playgrounds and lots of entertainment. Every tourist should ensure they visit this place. 
 Tansian University Oba, Umunya. One of the best private universities in Nigeria. It is a private Christian school 
 Afor Uzo Oba, Idemili South Anambra State. A popular international market that specializes in all articles and wears. 
Do[edit]
Buy[edit]
 Oba International Market. Oba International Market is a popular and very big market in Oba, you should go there to buy anything of your choice. 
Eat[edit]
 Sponsor Restaurant, 3, ☏ +234 812 080 4752. A restaurant in Oba, where you can go to eat 
 Maslina Garden, ☏ +234 814 093 9959. A restaurant in Oba, where you can go to eat 
 South End Lounge, Old Oba-Nnewi Rd. A restaurant in Oba, where you can go to eat 
Drink[edit]
There are a lot of places to drink in Oba, all you need to do is to walk into any of the bar, place your order, sit and have a good drink. The Oba people are known for enjoying themselves with drinks and merriment.

Sleep[edit]
 Swiss Park Hotel and Suites, 45/47 Ezeogidi Road, Nnewi, ☏ +234 902 904 8168. Cool hotel to pass the night, sleep and have a good rest in Oba. ₦7,000. 
 Sinachi Hotel Oba, No 5 Zehill road, New World Estate, ☏ +234 701 814 9757. Cool hotel to pass the night, sleep and have a good rest in Oba. ₦7,500. 
 Nellys Newtown Hotel, 434116, Oba, ☏ +234 912 901 7217. Cool hotel to pass the night, sleep and have a good rest in Oba. 
Connect[edit]
For most locations in Oba, you would most likely find coverage of the 2G/3G/4G mobile networks. Signal strength might diminish further away from the city center, and you might occasionally experience network outages for all or some of the mobile phone service providers in the remote areas of the city. Different networks tend to be more stable and reliable in different locations of the city at different times.
So it is very much advisable for tourists to go with 2 or more mobile networks, so if one fails, they can fall onto the other.
MTN, 9Mobile, Airtel (Zain), and GLO are all available service providers. So if you are planning a visit to Oba, as you would do for many other places in Nigeria, you should probably consider having multiple SIM cards, preferably for all the mobile service providers, since you can't tell which will be more stable and reliable at a time in your location during your visit. And if you will risk not having any of them, you might be better off not risking the MTN network, because, from indications, it seems to perform well than the others, though its rates may be high and its offers and services might be stringent, you are less likely to be concerned of erratic voice and data connection compared to others.

Go next[edit]
Ikeja
Isolo
Oredo





This city travel guide to Oba is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Oba&oldid=4379170"