
Paraíso is a city of 26,000 people (2020) in Tabasco on the Gulf of Mexico. Much of the area is traditionally dedicated to fishing and agriculture. Today, it is also an oil-producing area with the mostly oil-dedicated port of Dos Bocas. There is also some tourism connected to the area's beaches and natural attractions, and the area is promoted under the state's Cacao Route tourism program.


Understand[edit]
Paraíso sits along the Gulf Coast shoreline in Tabasco on the left bank of the Seco River. It offers excellent dining opportunities on the shore, beaches with views of nearby oil platforms ("rigs"), and a central plaza fronted by a picturesque church.

Get in[edit]
Map of Paraíso
It is about 75 km due north of the state capital of Villahermosa.

By bus[edit]
Paraíso is readily accessible by local and long-distance buses. In fact, the overnight bus from Merida to some cities in Tabasco makes a stop in Paraíso at approximately 06:00.
Lots of colectivos ply the route from Comalcalco (home to the largest archaeological site in Tabasco) to Paraíso. One spot they gather is on the road in front of the Chedraui/Cinepolis Plaza parking lot.
A taxi ride from there is also cheap.

18.388518-93.218571 Terminal Autobuses ADO, Francisco Villa, Quintin Arauz. Small, dilapidated bus terminal. 
By car[edit]
The city of Paraíso is linked to the rest of the state through the four-lane highway La Isla-Dos Bocas, which connects it with the cities of Comalcalco, Cunduacán and Villahermosa.
The federal highway No. 187 Mal Paso-El Bellote also crosses the city, which connects Paraíso with the cities of Comalcalco, Heroica Cárdenas and Huimanguillo. 
The El Bellote-Santa Cruz state highway that connects Paraíso with the port of Frontera and with Ciudad del Carmen, Campeche.
The coastal highway of the state that connects the city of Paraíso with the port of Sánchez Magallanes, in the municipality of Cárdenas.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
Templo de San Marcos
*  Church of San Marcos. The church of San Marcos is one of the most beautiful. This church is part of the most emblematic that exist in the state of Tabasco. Neoclassical style although it is a little transformed, it took on the characteristic tints of the region as cream, red, blue and white to give you. 
Mecoacán Lagoon: Body of water with small islands of exuberant mangrove vegetation and palm trees, habitat for countless aquatic birds such as herons, seagulls and pelicans, among others. In contrast to nature, the bridge that joins the Paraíso-Chiltepec highway stands out.
Mecoacán mangroves: Beautiful places of exuberant red mangrove vegetation that can be appreciated by tourism through a boat ride which allows contact with the flora and fauna of the tropical land mangroves.
Tupilco Bar: Very long beach, to the open sea, with fine sand, gray in color. The water is warm blue-green, moderate swell and shallow up to 100 m offshore. During the holiday periods it is quite crowded, mainly at Easter.
Republic of Paraíso tourist corridor: The tourist corridor connects the city of Paraíso with Puerto Ceiba and El Bellote. It has many restaurants serving typical food based on fish and seafood, as well as hotels of international business class chains.
Do[edit]
Beaches[edit]
Near the city of Paraíso are the beaches of:

Playa del Sol
Nuevo Paraíso
Playa Dorada
Playa Bruja
Playa Pelícanos
Playa Tortugas
Playa México
Festivals[edit]
Municipal Fair: an agricultural, livestock, industrial, artisan, artistic and fishing exhibition: it starts between April 21 and 23.
Feria de San Marcos: Religious festival in honor of St. Mark, Patron of the city, on April 25.
Candelaria Religious Festival,  celebrated on February 2.
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
The flavored ice creams sold in the main park of the city are in great demand by visitors. 

18.424588-93.1480321 Restaurant La Posta, ☏ +52 933-335-40-92. This seaside restaurant, built on a deck over Laguna Mecoacán, specializes in seafood and serves up big portions and ambience. Try the camarones empanizados (breaded shrimp) or the pescado a la diabla (spicy fish). M$75-90. 
18.39765-93.2117042 La Tabasqueña, Miguel Lerdo de Tejada 302B, Centro, ☏ +52 933 104 8798. 07:00 - 17:30 (closed Su). Homemade traditional Mexican dishes. Recommend breakfast with the huevos motuleños. (updated Oct 2023)
18.406606-93.2333823 Chef Ana, Calle Bugambilia s/n, Las Flores, ☏ +52 193 313 31557. 14:30 - 22:00 (closed Sa). Everything is homemade and prepared when you order. Good variety of light foods like burgers, tortas, fresh fruit juices. Locals recommend the pizza. (updated Oct 2023)
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Holiday Inn Express, Tourist corridor "República de Paraíso"
Hampton Inn & Suites by Hilton, Tourist corridor "República de Paraíso"
City express, Tourist corridor "República de Paraíso"
Báez Paraíso, Blvd. Manuel A. Romero No. 100
Costa Esmeralda, Center
Hotel Dos Ceibas Suites, Center
Paraíso y Mar,	Paradise Beach
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Paraíso is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Paraíso&oldid=4745367"