

Baijnath Temple
Pathankot is a city and district in the Indian state of Punjab.


Understand[edit]
Pathankot
Pathankot is used as a gateway for Chamba and Kangra Valley in Himachal Pradesh and for various locations in Jammu and Kashmir like Jammu City Mansar Lake, Srinagar, Udhampur, Holy Cave at Amarnath, Patni Top and Holy Cave of Mata Vashino Devi (Katra) 155 km away from Pathankot.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
32.23361175.6344441 Pathankot Airport (IXP  IATA). Domestic flights only, particularly from Delhi.   
By train[edit]
32.27180475.6444272 Pathankot Junction Railway Station.   (updated Aug 2023)
32.259375.6360443 Pathankot Cantonment/Cantt Railway Station (also known as Chakki Bank).   
It is the nearest mainline railhead for Dharamsala (though the Kangra Valley Railway stops within 20 km of Dharamsala). Two mainlines head south: one to Amritsar (2 hr) and one to Delhi (8 hr). All north-bound services to Jammu (2 hr) pass through, with cantonment the main station for Jammu trains; it is 4 km from the main station and is smaller with limited facilities.

31.98915876.7894854 Kangra Valley Railway (Kangra Toy Train). This narrow-gauge, British-built train crawls 128 km from Pathankot main station through stunning scenery to Joginder Nagar (6 hr) via Palampur and Kangra (93 km, 4 hr, ₹20) (near Dharamsala). About six daily departures of slow, often packed second class trains make the trip. (The luxury Kangra Queen service are no more.) Some head only to the penultimate stop of Baijnath Paprola, though all serve the main towns of interest: Kangra Mandir and Palampur. Tickets cannot be booked in advance; they must be bought at Pathankot station on the day of travel. While Dalhousie Road station is on a road to Dalhousie, the station is not far out of Pathankot, making the train not worth bothering with if heading from Pathankot. However, the mountain views and isolated route make the line a pleasant, if slow, way to reach to Dharamsala. Direct buses and rickshaws run the 30 km to Dharamsala (₹30) from Kangra Mandir station (98 km, 4 hr, ₹20) (near Kangra).   (updated Aug 2023)
By bus[edit]
32.2745675.642545 Maharaja Pratap Interstate Bus Terminal (close to the railway station). The main bus stand has been renovated. Formerly, there were two bus stations: a small one right next to the train station (for Himachal buses) and the main bus stand a few km away. (updated Aug 2023)
Public HRTC buses to Dharamsala take 3-4 hr twisting and turning hours and cost ₹200, while buses to Amritsar take 3 hr and cost the same. Dalhousie, a famous destination for honeymoon couples, is 80 km from Pathankot.
Pathankot is situated at the entry point of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. The famous Hindu Pilgrimage Vaishno devi is just 160 km from Pathankot. From Chandigarh it's just 6 hours. It is well connected with bus services from Punjab roadways, Haryana Roadways, Himachal Roadways and J&K transport.

Get around[edit]
Map of Pathankot
You can take an auto rickshaw or a bicycle rickshaw at cheap rates. You can reach at any part of Pathankot by spending just ₹5 or a maximum of ₹10. These are quite the safest modes of transport in Patahnkot.

See[edit]
Pathankot is surrounded by both the Shivalik range, part of what makes up the foothills of The Himalayas, and the river Chakki. There are some old temples like Kali Mata Mandir, Mandir Aashapurni, Lakshmi Narayan Mandir, and Bhagwan Shiri Satya Sai Baba's Mandir at the northern part of town in the village Manwal. There are also beautiful British-era churches on Mission Road, huge Gurudwaras (Sikh temples) and a very ancient mosque right in the middle of downtown Pathankot, mixing all the colorful cultures of India.
There is a beautiful view of the river Ravi from "Pari Baagh" Madhupur.

32.30272775.8818281 Nurpur Fort (25 km (16 mi) from Pathankot). Fortress built by the Pathania Rajputs, more than 900 years ago. It was damaged due to the great earthquake which struck this region early in 1905 AD. It is quite famous in North India, and the temple inside attracts tourists from all across India. 
32.38839675.6836852 Shahpurkandi fort, Madopur Road. The fort is one of the main attractions of Pathankot city. It was built in 1505 AD by a Rajput chief, by the name of Jaspal Singh Pathania. It was strategically located to have control over the Kangra and Nurpur region. The fort is in ruins, and is famous for its temples and the view it commands over the Ravi river. 
32.1159575.636043 Kathgarh Mandir. An important ancient Shiva temple 30 km from Pathankot towards Indora/Chanour (HP). During "Naag panchami", the gap between two shiva parvati holy stones reduces and during "shivrathri" the gap increases. There is no clue as to how that happens. But truly it' has a magic of its own. This temple is very historical temple. It is said that this temple was constructed at the time of Alexander The Great. (updated Aug 2023)
Jugial Township – 15 km (approx) from Pathankot. This place has greenery all around and one Laxmi Narayan Mandir which is the biggest among the nearby areas.
The famous road/colony that forms the heart of city are 'mission road ', 'Model Town', Jodhamal colony, 'green heaven colony' and 'Patel chownk' road. Famous temples are Ashapurni mandir, Kali mata ka mandir, Shani Dev mandir, Raghunath Mandir in Mirpur Colony (Model Town), Hanuman Mandir near railway station, Ramlila ground. Also, devotees visit CNI church, Peer baba on Patel Chownk. Now new localities are coming up like 'Victoria Estate' and place near 'Doji Raam ki Nursery'. The residential land is decreasing day by day in its vicinity apart from famous 'Victoria Estate', land near 'Doji Raam ki Nursery' that are close to Shahpur Chownk and 'Green Heaven Colony'.

Do[edit]
Kangra Valley Railway – Take a scenic and slow trip up to Kangra near Dharamsala, or the whole way to Jogindernagar (164 km)
If you want to have some kind of adventures then you can hire bikes from Pathankot and go to nature's lap by enjoying the Himalayas.
There are lot of tour and travels near the bus stand and railway station area.
Buy[edit]
Pathankot was once famous for the timber trade with fine varieties of deodar, pine, fir and spruce being brought in from the far flung forests of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.

Mission Road – At this place you can find all the branded showrooms for shoes and clothes (Diesel, Benetton, Cantabill, Flying Machine, Nike, Adidas, Reebok, etc.).
Sujanpur Market – If you want to purchase clothes at cheap and best rates, this is the place. People from Himachal, J&K came to this bazaar for shopping. Famous shops include " Bhatia Cloth House". People used to visit this market to shop for weddings. Also famous for utensils.
Chandi Chowk – Here you can find all the shops including branded showrooms. "Ghorkhas" are one of the oldest showroom of Pathankot and people still love to visit this shop. The "City Plaza" opposite the main post office has emerged as a major destination for all the fashion lovers of the city.
You can buy pure and semi pure pashmina shawls from here because of its closeness to two important pashmina manufacturing states Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. It's also famous for its crockery factory.
A very good collection of computer related accessories can be found here; you can easily get everything for computers which you can even find easily in New Delhi. Visit Shri Ram Datamatics, LIC Building, Dalhousie Road, Pathankot.

Eat[edit]
You can get excellent North Indian delicacies round the clock. A few of the renowned restaurants of the city are Hotel Venice, Hotel Woodland, Moti Mahal, Unite Hotel, Hotel Pathankot.

There are huge gardens of mango, litchi etc. You will find "dusheri mango" gardens fully loaded in the months of April. The flavour of mangoes will make you crazy for them. Litchi gardens for which pathankot is famous are full with red coloured fruit in months of May. Don't miss the chance to eat this by directly plucking from tree
32.27229875.6523651 Makhan da dhaba, Dhangu Road (Near Choti Line), ☏ +91 98764 99092. If you really love to eat spicy Punjabi food, then visit "Makhan da dhaba" near the railway line. It is very famous for its cheap and tasty food. It serves Dal Tarka, Channa Masala, Muttar Paneer and many more spicy dishes and any two people can eat good food for only ₹50. This may be among the cheapest and tastiest food in the area. 
You can also go for walk in evening towards Dalhousie Road and find many things to eat in lowest prices among the Pathankot you will find South Indian dishes like dosa, idli. Northern, Punjabi naan shole, fast food on famous prince da dhaba you will also find non veg, ice cream and lots more and you will enjoy your evening a lot.
You can also visit "Sanjha Chulla" on NH One from Pathankot To Jammu Raod near bridge number 3. It is very famous and for its food. They serve "Sahi Panner, Dal Makhani, mix veg, Channa Masala and many more. Above all, try their "Kheer". Two people can eat good food for only ₹100. This may be among the cheapest and tastiest food in the area.
If you are diehard fan of non veg, then a must visit is "Chan ka Dhaba and Baba Ka Dhaba" at Dalhausie Road Pathankot. You will get lot of variety of chicken and mutton dishes. Specialty: Mutton Tikka, chicken Tikka, mutton curry and Tandoori chicken and mutton Champ.
If you love sweets, you can visit 'Shhani di Hatti', 'Banarsi Di Hatti' (Banarsi's Shop), famous for a sweet called Palang-tod, meaning one which can break (tod) a bed (palang), basically a milk cake or PGT. The shop has been making it for more than 70 years. Also BIkaner Sweets is a good choice.
Must Try: Very old and very famous for "Burfi". If you are in Pathankot, then don't forget to eat "Khaare Kho ki Burfi". Just ask for "Khaara Khu" and people will guide you to get there.
Also, there are famous puris with chana and lassi for breakfast, and the famous bakery shops of Saini bakers and A-One bakers.
If you get bored with all spicy and fast food and want to have some home like food prepared with pure desi ghee at very reasonable prices, then you can go to "Chamba Dhabha" at Post office chowk. Don't go with the name of "Dhabha" (basically this is the one of the oldest hotels of Pathankot). Here you can really enjoy the taste of Himachal as all the cooks and staff have roots from Chamba.
If you're just passing through Pathankot and want to have anything from a quick munch to a splurge, stopover at:

32.26827575.6575752 Moti Mahal Grand, G.K. Plaza, Saili Road, ☏ +91 186 225 2515, +91 991 531 3541. Moti Mahal is the best restaurant in Pathankot with its lounge bar,terrace Morrocan open bar & restaurant & a party hall to cater parties up to 200 people, which is a branch of well known moti mahal restaurant of Delhi. Moti Mahal’s Tandoori Trail showcases great recipes, some inherited and some a result of experimentation by the author, which are as delicious today as they were 57 years ago. This is a collection of secret recipes offered to the lovers of good food and as a token of their loyalty towards Moti Mahal’s cuisine worldwide. Enjoy and savour each of them. Besides this treasure house of recipes, a picture gallery of unique photographs of Kundan Lal Gujral at several award ceremonies, as well as with various dignitaries including former president Zakir Hussain, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Kennedy. 
 Healthy Bites. A good fast food restaurant. 
32.26891375.6513953 Honey Bun, Fashion Street, Dhangu Road. It is a fast food restaurant and a bakery shop near Hotel Woodland. Its amazing ambience will surprise you. The prices are very reasonable. It is the best place in the town where you will get best value for money along with great eating experience. 
 Hotel Venice. 
 Hotel Woodland. Dhangu Rd., in the heart of the city. With of the finest restaurant, spacious and well equipped rooms it is the most obvious choice for most of the travellers. It is a two-star hotel, certified by the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India. 
 Spice n Ice, g.k. plaza, saili road (near patel chowk), ☏ +91 2252515, +91 9988089700. Daily 11:30AM-11:30PM. Cuisine: Tandoori, Mughali, Indian, Chinese, continental. 
 Coffee Cafe Day (near Manwal). 
 U-nite Hotel, Gurdaspur Road.. 
Drink[edit]
This city is famous for lichis. You can eat the fruit or ask for lichi juice. In seasons other than summer when you cannot get fresh Lichi, ask for packaged lichi juice. Many big companies like package it.

32.26880975.6515771 Hotel Woodland, Fashion Street, Dhangu Road, ☏ +91 186 223 0023. A hot nightspot from the moment it opened, a dazzling venue decorated in a riotous collection of styles. It features a forest outlook and furniture design that looks like jungle safari. It is the perfect place for drinks, lively conversation, people-watching, and experiencing the undeniable excitement of the city. 
 Coral. One of hottest nightspots from the moment it opened. One of the oldest and best place to hang out. Especially in Summers. Prices as per the location are affordable. 
 Hotel Venice. You can get the bottle of beer in just ₹80 and snacks offered really affordable. Best hospitality in the town. 
Sleep[edit]
There are no budget options in this city except for the station rooms. So, it is better not to get stuck here on your way through. Just in case you do, you might be better off taking a quick bus to Amritsar and staying there.

32.26890475.6516581 Hotel Woodland, Fashion Street, Dhangu Rd, Jodhamal Bagh, ☏ +91 186 223 0023. Hotel Woodland is a luxury hotel near the domestic airport and railway station. It has 18 rooms in a variety of classes. 
32.2731275.6362482 Hotel u-nite, Gurdaspur Road,Gandhi Nagar, ☏ +91 186 223 0082. 
 Dee pee residency. 
32.26439175.6761133 Walia Resort, Jalandhar - Dalhousie Bypass, ☏ +91 94174 29858. 
32.26732675.651244 Hotel Venice, Dhangu Road, ☏ +91 186 222 5061. Hotel Venice is marvelous hotel with very well educated staff.You will enjoy the hospitality and food provided. This is at Dhangu road and is easily accessible. 
 Hotel Stay-Well. Near the bus station and a short rickshaw to the train station. Now the hotel will be opening additional rooms, increasing its capacity, own parking available. Well ventilated. 
 Station Retiring Rooms, in the railway station (along the main platform). Check-in: 3PM, check-out: 6PM. Eight simple private two-bed rooms with attached bathrooms, supposedly only for travellers with onward rail tickets, but tickets not necessary because the Kangra Valley train can't be booked in advance: just say you will be on the morning train. ₹200–300 per room. 
Stay safe[edit]
Pathankot is by and large a very safe place. Violent crime is almost unheard of, although it's important to keep an eye on your belongings in public, as petty theft can occur at Railway stations. Do report any such activity to the police. Keep away from the touts. Most part of Pathankot City is covered by Army camps.
Heavy traffic and congestion at Gandhi Chowk and Dhangu Road Railway Crossing.
These days the traffic and transport situation in Pathankot has become very pathetic and getting daily deteriorated and dangerous due to increasing number of vehicles, 2, 3 and 4 wheelers, and indisciplined and careless driving of the citizens. People hardly follow traffic signals, lanes, no entries etc. The vehicles don't care for pedestrians crossing the roads. The enforcement of traffic laws by the traffic police is very rarely seen, unlike Delhi or other major cities. The road conditions are also very bad at some locations, especially during rainy seasons.
Drivers, both 2 and 4 wheelers, Army vehicles, normally do not follow one ways and drive from the wrong side of a divided road, even on highways. Crossing a busy street is always a nightmare. However, the link roads are good indeed.

Go next[edit]
One can stop over in Pathankot en route to Dharamshala (100 km), Dalhousie (70 km), Amritsar (108 km), Palampur (100 km), Chamba (100 km), Jammu (100 km), Hoshiarpur (100 km), Kangra (100 km), and Jalandhar (108 km) all in different directions from Pathankot.
Make sure you visit Dalhousie in winter (after 25th December) you can catch some real snow. Moreover, when you visit Dalhousie, don't forget to make your trip to Khajjiar. No wonder they call it an Indian Switzerland (try balloon riding, paragliding for kids, horse riding, taking a picture in their traditional dress, and dining at the restaurants.) To get your adrenaline flow, drive from Khagiar to Chamba; the narrow roads with breathtaking views will make your adrenaline flow for sure.
For religious trips like Jwalaji (130 km), Chintpurni (130 km), Pathankot becoms an ideal place to rest before heading to the hill route the next morning. A Grand Ranjit Sagar Dam (earthen Dam made of mud and not concrete) is a 100-km-long water reservoir. This is the latest tourist spot of Pathankot and is in "Must Visit". Chinmayya Temple (Swami Chinmayya Nand) is also on the way to Yol Camp (100 km). This is the place where the German Soldiers (POW) were kept in confinement after the Second World War by the British.






This city travel guide to Pathankot is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Pathankot&oldid=4763342"