
Peterborough is a village in New Hampshire.  It was founded in 1760 and has about 6,300 residents.


Understand[edit]
Peterborough appears as a classic small New England town, featured in USA Today as most picturesque and idyllic in the state.  It has a charming brick downtown, and is a popular stop on leaf-peeping tours. Its cultural activities attract many throughout the region.

Get in[edit]
Peterborough is located at the crossroads of Routes 101 and 202, and can be reached easily from Montreal, Manchester, or Boston.

Get around[edit]
The easiest way to explore the downtown area is to walk, as it's not very large. There are also bicycle paths and cross-country ski trails that wind along rivers.

See[edit]
Start your tour at the horsehead fountain in front of town hall; just point your phone at the UPC code there to access the guide.  Every May Peterborough hosts a Children and the Arts festival, which involves hundreds of schoolchildren and centers around many performing venues.  It also has a giant puppet parade. The Thing in the Spring music festival, Broke Arts festival, Wellness Festival and Greenerborough are just a few of the many events you'll find listed in the Monadnock Ledger-Transcript Calendar [formerly dead link] .

Do[edit]
The Peterborough Contra Dance
 Mount Monadnock (in nearby Jaffrey, NH). One of the most-climbed mountains in the world. The hike is quick and views from the top are phenomenal. 
 Mariposa Museum, Main Street (across from the Unitarian Church). It features crafts from around the world, as well as frequent musical performances. 
 The Peterborough Players. Has been putting on plays during the summer months for over a hundred years. James Whitimore was a regular there. (updated Feb 2016)
42.8958-71.98591 MacDowell Dam and Recreation Area (Ffrom intersection of Rt 101W, turn north on Elm St., left on Main St, drive approx. 1 mile to Wilder St. Drive uphill to dam and parking). Has a lovely beach and is a good place to relax on a hot summer day. Unfortunately, the town beach at Cunningham Pond is for residents only and your car will be towed if you park there without a sticker. But MacDowell dam is public and free. It has hiking and skiing trails, kayak and fishing boat launch, picnic areas, frisbee and other recreational games. Free. (updated Feb 2016)
42.877488-71.9507852 Peterborough Contra Dance, Peterborough Town House, 1 Grove St. 8PM-11PM. Try out a traditional New England folk dance that has been flourishing here since the 1700s. Contra is easy to learn, making it welcoming for travelers without prior experience. $10, $7 seniors and students. (updated Jun 2023)
Buy[edit]
There are many shops in the downtown area.

 At Wit's End. Has knickknacks and souvenirs. 
 Mariposa Museum. Has crafts from around the world. 
Eat[edit]
 Harlow's Pub, Grove St. Popular with the locals.  It features delicious burritos, sandwiches, and pasta, and has a great atmosphere.  Dinners run about $8. 
 The Peterborough Diner (Off of School Street). A classic small-town eatery. It makes delicious burgers, fries, and Oreo frappes.  A good lunch costs about $8. 
 Waterhouse (Depot Square). Lovely bar. Makes delicious gourmet pizzas among other upscale foods.  Dinner will cost about $20-42 per person. 
 Nonie's, Grove St. Makes the best breakfasts in town and has awesome lunch specials too.  It opens at 6 sharp and stays open until 2 or 3.  Breakfast is about $7, lunch is a few dollars more. 
 Ave Marie's, Grove St. Has great homemade chocolates and ice creams.  The ginger ice cream, when they have it, is highly recommended.  A medium ice cream is about $3. 
Drink[edit]
 Harlow's Pub, Grove St. The best bar in town. They have a wide variety of regional beers and the atmosphere is great on Friday nights. 
 [dead link] The Wreck Room, Monadnock Plaza (from the intersection of Rt 101 and 202, go south on 202 toward Jaffrey. The plaza is on your right 1/4 mile from town). Music venue and bar (updated Feb 2016)
Sleep[edit]
 The Jack Daniel's Motor Inn, Concord St. The best place to stay in town. 
Go next[edit]


Routes through Peterborough




Holyoke ← Rindge ←

 W  E 

→ Hillsborough → Concord


END ← Keene ←

 W  E 

→ Milford → Manchester









This city travel guide to Peterborough is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Peterborough_(New_Hampshire)&oldid=4820814"