
Picton is town in the Southern Highlands of New South Wales


Understand[edit]
If you're passing Picton - drop in and visit now! Sydney is sprawling to the south-west and west, and Picton is already at the edge of the commuter belt for Sydney.  But the town centre of Picton is still charming, with a creek running through the town to the south, and a selection of shops along the main street, good coffee from a choice of cafes.  It is the kind of village look that crafty tourist towns of Berry and Bowral try to capture, but it is here at the centre of a real local community in Picton.  Get off the Hume Highway, and drop in to Picton for a coffee and a wander.  If you miss it this time, next time you're passing it may just be another Sydney suburb with a strip mall on the outskirts.

Get in[edit]
The historic railway viaduct is still in use
34°11′59″S 150°37′9″EMap of Picton (New South Wales)
By car[edit]
Picton is around 10km diversion from the Hume Highway heading south-west from Sydney.  It is an easy day trip from Sydney, or a more scenic route out of Sydney along the Old Hume Highway and the Razorback Range.
The town centre is a little off the main road, so make sure you don't think the ugly service station and industrial areas is what passes for the centre.

By train[edit]
Southern Highlands Trains stop at Picton every hourly on weekdays and every 2 hours on weekends.  Change at Campbelltown.  Opal cards are valid, and services cannot be booked.  NSW Trainlink booked services (to Canberra and Melbourne) pass through Picton without stopping.

By bus[edit]
Picton buslines operates some services to Campbelltown and to Camden.  These services do not accept Opal, and are no longer part of the integrated Sydney transport ticketing.  You must purchase a ticket from the driver.

By bike[edit]
Picton lies near the top of Old Razorback road, that is a classic cyclist challenge, that can still be mastered by an average cyclist.  The trip from Campbelltown out to Picton is around 70km return.  With a frequent train service to Campbelltown, good coffee in Picton, and a nice hill in between, this may be your ride!

Get around[edit]
You can reach the centre of the village, the bridges, and the pub without a car.  You will need a car to see the surrounding countryside and lookouts.

See[edit]
-34.172734150.6059971 Mushroom Tunnel, 229 Argyle St (a path with a sign leads off Argyle St, veer left rather than going up the hill), council@wollondilly.nsw.gov.au. Daylight. The tunnel is a relic of the old rail route through Picton, before realignment to reduce gradients. It was then used to grow mushrooms and is said to be haunted. It is a short walk to the other side. (updated Aug 2016)
-34.180303150.6105642 Victoria Bridge, Prince St between Menangle St and Argyle St. Historic trestle bridge over Stonequarry Creek. (updated Aug 2016)
Do[edit]
-34.222334150.670091 Skydive. Sydney Skydivers operates exclusively from the nearby airport at Wilton (the turn off is a few hundred metres from the Picton exit off the Hume Highway (freeway)). Full licence training also available. There is a cafe with a decent coffee machine and toasted sandwiches at a reasonable price if you just want to watch. Or if your idea of lunch is a pack of corn chips with a tin of bean mix and cheese for around $8, they can help you with that too. Picnic tables if you'd rather bring your own. Entry is free, $275 for a tandem skydive. Discounts available for a second jump on the same day. Pick a time online, but usually it is okay to just drop in. (updated Apr 2016)
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
 Georges On Argyle, 4/403 Argyle St, ☏ +61 2 4677 0397. (updated Jun 2021)
 Vabys Restaurant, 2 Station St, ☏ +61 2 4677 1018. (updated Jun 2021)
Drink[edit]
-34.171227150.610531 George IV Inn, 180 Argyle St. A historic pub with a nice balcony, good food, beer and live music. Has accommodation and is an easy walk from the train station if you don't want to drive home afterwards. The pub was the site of one of Australia's first microbreweries. Geoff Scharer ran the pub and brewed a lager and the Burragorang Bock (named after the nearby valley). Scharer died in 2012. The kettle is still on display in the bar, but the pub no longer does any brewing. The Bock and the Lager made from the original recipe are still available in the Australian Hotel in The Rocks 
Sleep[edit]
There are a selection of farmstays around the area. 

 Mowbray Park FarmStay, 745 Barkers Lodge Rd, Mowbray Park, ☏ +61 2 722 833 00. 
There is accommodation at the George IV Inn and the other pubs in town.

Connect[edit]
Picton Post Office is on the main street, and open weekdays and Saturday mornings.
A few of the cafes along the main street also offer free Wi-Fi to their customers.

Go next[edit]
Explore the Southern Highlands, the rivers, Burragorang Lookout, and the Oaks.
The world-heritage Thirlmere Lakes National Park is nearby.


Routes via Picton


Goulburn ← Mittagong ←

SW M31 NE 

→ Macarthur → South-western Sydney


END  ←

NW B88 SE 

→  Wollongong


Goulburn ← Mittagong ←

SW  SHL  NE 

→  Campbelltown









This city travel guide to Picton is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Picton_(New_South_Wales)&oldid=4867115"