
The Piraeus (Πειραιάς, official transliteration Pireas) is the ancient port of Athens, and still functions as the chief exit point from the city by sea, for destinations among the Aegean Islands and elsewhere in the east Mediterranean. Domestic destinations include all of the Aegean islands except the Sporades and some smaller Cyclades and Dodecanese isles that require a connection. International destinations (apart from cruise ships) include Cyprus and the Middle East.

View of the passenger vessel's harbor and Karaiskaki Square

Understand[edit]
Piraeus occupies a huge territory. Check your gate number in advance, so you know where to go. It may take 15 minutes of driving or 30 minutes of walking to reach one end of the port from the other.
Since privatisation of the Port of Piraeus Authority, passenger facilities have improved greatly. Air conditioned tents have been set up at departure locations around the port, and free wi-fi internet access is now available.
Ship arrivals and departures are posted outside the Coast Guard Building at Karaiskaki Square, the main bus terminal of Piraeus.
The area can become hectic, especially during the summer period, so allow plenty of time to navigate to the correct departure point.

History[edit]
Piraeus was founded in the early 5th century BC, assuming great importance as the new port of classical Athens. Built as a prototype harbour, with three deep water harbours, the main port of Cantharus and the two smaller of Zea and Munichia, it concentrated all the import and transit trade of Athens, and gradually replaced the older and shallow Phaleron harbour, which gradually fell into disuse. During the Golden Age of Athens (480-343 BC), Piraeus was rebuilt to the famous grid plan of architect Hippodamus of Miletus, known as the Hippodamian plan, and its main agora was named after him in honour. As a result, Piraeus flourished and became a port of high security and great commercial activity, and the Long Walls were constructed to fortify the route from the main city to its port, which created a formidable naval fortress. This aroused Sparta's suspicions and, in the words of Thucydides, "made war inevitable". After this war (431-404 BC), the harbour declined gradually, growing once more in the 19th century, after Athens' declaration as the capital of Greece.

Get in[edit]
37°56′23″N 23°38′17″EMap of Piraeus


Most travellers arriving in Piraeus from central Athens make use of the very convenient Metro. Piraeus metro station is an interchange station between Athens metro Lines 1 and 3, near E6 gate of the port, from there it's a short walk to the Saronic Gulf ferries, hydrofoils and catamarans, or a free shuttle-bus ride to the ships sailing to Crete and the Dodecanses. Central Cyclades ferries sail from just across the metro station. Metro ticket costs €1.20 and allows unlimited connections on all modes of transport within 90 minutes.
Direct Airport Express buses run 24 hours between the port of Piraeus and Athens International Airport. Allow 90 minutes for the trip. The airport is also accessible via the Metro, with a connection at Monastiraki. Bus tickets to the airport, available from the driver, cost €5.50; Metro tickets to the airport are €9.00.
Other public buses connect Piraeus with other suburbs, the southern coastal zone and central Athens. Bus and trolley-bus tickets cost €1.20 and are valid for unlimited connections (including metro) within 90 minutes. They must be bought in advance (generally from kiosks or inside metro stations).
During the "season", a goodly number of cruise ships stop here.  Modest sized ships dock within easy walk of the passenger terminal (approximately a mile south of the Metro station).  Large ships dock about 2–300 m further away, closer to the busy entrance to this harbour.  From the terminal, you could take a taxi, or you might find a city bus going toward the Metro terminal (ask in the terminal); otherwise, you face a walk with entrances to ferry and freight docks on the shore side, and various commercial and civic buildings on the other side of the very busy street.  Those walkers who stay on the harbor side can use a pedestrian bridge over the street within sight of the Metro station.

Get around[edit]
The centre of Piraeus municipality and the Port can be negotiated easily on foot if you are not carrying luggage. Trolleybuses (no 20) are useful for the run from the Port to Passalimani and then follow the very scenic route around the hill of Castella, terminating at the Line 1 Metro station of Faliro, near the Peace & Friendship and Karaiskaki Stadiums.
Free shuttle buses inside the Port run from across the Metro station (Lines 1,3), around the north side of the port to the ships sailing for Crete, the Eastern Aegean and the Dodecanese.

See[edit]
Mikroklimano Marina
37.9371823.644171 Archaeological Museum of Piraeus, 31 Ch. Trikoupi Street. Established in 1935 and expanded in 1966, the museum is small, yet holds a number of significant pieces in its collection. These included bronze statues of Apollo and Athena from the Archaic and Classical periods of Greek art, as well as a fine collection of funerary stelae. (updated May 2019)
Municipal Theater
37.9434423.646672 Municipal Theater of Piraeus, 34 Iroon Polytechniou Ave. Completed in 1895, the Municipal Theatre (Greek: Δημοτικό Θέατρο, Dimotiko Theatro) has been a hallmark of Piraeus for over a century. During its extended history it has hosted plays featuring renowned actors and music concerts by great composers (Manos Hatzidakis, Mikis Theodorakis and more), and the Piraeus Municipal Gallery and the Historic Archives. Restoration work was completed in 2013 and the theatre is now dedicated to its original purpose of holding theatrical plays. 
Athens Metro Line 1 Terminal station
37.94808623.642553 Athens Metro Line 1 Terminal Station. One of the oldest of its kind in Greece, built on the site of Piraeus's first conventional train station, it was completed in 1929. Its original interior arch design and exterior architecture have been restored before the 2004 Olympic Games. Since 2005 it also houses the Electric Railway Museum.   (updated Jan 2021)
37.9355923.648174 Zea Marina. (updated May 2015)
Antiquities of center of Athens are an easy day trip by Metro.
Saronic Gulf Islands are within a day trip by ferry, and Aegina is the obvious choice.
Do[edit]
37.9355923.654721 Votsalakia Beach. 
37.9306423.647152 Freatida Beach. 
Football at 37.946423.66443 Karaiskakis Stadium. Olympiacos FC play soccer in Superleague, the top tier. The stadium has a capacity of 32,000. (updated Mar 2022)
Ionikos FC were relegated in 2023 to the second tier. Their home ground Neapolis Public Stadium (capacity 5500) is in Nikaia, nominally within Piraeus town limits but easier reached from central Athens.
Buy[edit]
The main street for apparel shopping in Piraeus is Sotiros Dios, pedestrianized for the most part and quite nice to walk through, going uphill from the port and the downhill towards the Marina. There are also many shops and cafes along the harbor front, especially toward the cruise terminal and near the Metro station.

Eat[edit]
Piraeus offers numerous fish bistros (Greek: psarotaverna) spread along the coastline, especially along Pasalimani and Mikrolimano Bays.The unfinished Piraeus tower dominates the skyline, being the second-tallest building in the Greater Athens area
37.93248123.6992111 Mr. Aristos, Zisimopoulou 96 17564, ☏ +30 210 982 2339, kyraristossocial@gmail.com. Su-Th 12:00-00:30, F Sa 12:00-01:00. Kebabs, giaourtlou, pastourmas and sutzuki. 
Drink[edit]
Good cafes are very scarce in the port.

 Bouboulina. At the end of the marina, Bouboulina has an extensive terrace overlooking the open sea. Service is relaxed but rather higher-end and friendly. The drink and food menu has many options to choose from, and while one would come here for the view more for culinary delights, Bouboulina does not disappoint at that front either. (updated May 2015)
Marina Zea
Sleep[edit]
 Ionion Hotel. The hotel is run by Mr Takis A. Saxionis, who responds personally to emails. The hotel is a very short walk from the X96 bus drop off, and near to departing ferries. The hotel is an excellent location to spend the night if you're catching an early ferry. Hotel cost is approximately €50 per night for a room for two persons (bathroom en suite). Most rooms have air conditioning and balconies. (updated May 2019)
 Savoy Hotel. (updated Aug 2019)
 Phidias Piraeus Hotel. (updated May 2015)
 Piraeus Dream Hotel. (updated May 2015)
 Piraeus Theoxenia Hotel. The most luxurious hotel in Piraeus, boasting five stars. (updated Aug 2019)
 Lilia Hotel. (updated May 2015)
 Scorpios Hotel. (updated May 2015)
 Faros Hotel, Notara 140, ☏ +30 210 42 95 171. Double bed or twin room with separate beds. Shower, A/C, central heating, TV, telephone and Wi-Fi internet. Single €30, double €40. (updated Oct 2020)
Stay safe[edit]
Piraeus is a rather chaotic place with traffic that's horrendous even for Greece.  Particular caution should be used when crossing the street, or when walking along the pavement by the ferry quays where cars, taxis, and trucks often drive randomly among the crowds of travelers walking to and from the boats.
Piraeus is huge and heavily populated, with many industrialized areas. It is a predominantly working class city with many sailors and port workers; parts of it are about as tough as you'd expect such a place to be. The passenger port and the city centre (area around Dimotiko Theatro metro station) as well as the Zea and Mikrolimano marinas are safe enough, but avoid wandering around the rest of Piraeus, especially at night, unless you know your way around. Piraeus has also a strong presence of organized crime, though this will pose no risk unless you are looking for trouble.
Unlicensed taxi drivers often meet arriving ferries.  Unlike in some countries, these taxis have a bad reputation and should not be considered as a cheap alternative to licensed cabs.
Pickpocketing gangs have been reported working on the Piraeus-Airport bus; for a full description see the Athens Stay Safe section.
One scam you may encounter in Piraeus is a rather subtle one.  A man will walk up to you while you are waiting with your luggage in line to board a ferry.  This gentleman is a consummate actor:  though he doesn't actually claim to be working for the boat or port, his demeanor and behavior imply strongly that he is.  He'll pick up your luggage, brushing aside any objections, and usher you with it to the head of the line, at which point he'll demand a hefty tip.  In one reported case the bite was €7.00 (our respondent decided the performance was worth €2.00)
The football rivalry between local club Olympiacos and  Panathinaikos is notoriously intense, and has on occasion resulting in violent confrontations between opposing fans. To be safe, avoid wearing Panathinaikos shirts while you are in Piraeus, especially during matchday, or it could result in you being harassed or even singled out for violence by opposing fans.

Connect[edit]
As of Sep 2021, Piraeus has 5G from all Greek carriers. Wifi is widely available in public places, and the ferries will be only too pleased to connect you at international maritime rates. 

Go next[edit]
Piraeus is the largest port of Greece, which means that you have a large variety of destinations to choose from. From here flying dolphins and ships leave for the Saronic Gulf Islands (Gate Ε8), high speed catamarans and conventional ferries for the Aegean Islands (Gates E6, E7, E9, E10), ferries and cruise ships for Crete, Lesvos, Chios and the Dodecanese (Gates E3, E2 and Gate E1 respectively) and bigger vessels for Cyprus and the Middle East (Gates E11, E12). Most major Greek Naval Companies have agencies here.







This city travel guide to Piraeus is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Piraeus&oldid=4830158"