
Poreč (Italian: Parenzo) is on the Adriatic coast of Croatia in the region of Istria. It is an ancient Roman town that now is very popular with tourists. The beauty of Poreč attracts thousands of visitors every summer which can make the region feel very busy from June to September.


Get in[edit]
Euphrasian Basilica, interior
By boat[edit]
Venezia Lines sail from Venice to Poreč during the summer months (April–October). All departures from Venice are at 17:00  -  Arrival at Porec 19:30. Return from Porec to Venice at 08:00 and arrival in Venice 10:30.

By plane[edit]
Pula airport, some 60 km to the south is the closest passenger airport in Croatia. Other nearby airports are Rijeka airport in Krk and Trieste airport in Italy. One option to go from the airport to Poreč is rental car, it's a 45 minute drive from Pula airport.

By bus[edit]
There are regular long-distance buses from major Croatian cities, as well as cities in Italy.

By car[edit]
There are highways coming in from Rovinj, Pula, Umag and Rijeka (connecting to the rest of the country).

Get around[edit]
Poreč is very small, and it's almost impossible to get lost in the town. There is a bus station, and taxi rank nearby if you are staying at one of the many hotel and apartment complexes out of town. If you enter into the old town, which is to the right from the bus station, you will see a tourist office (logo has blue i).  The tourist office will give you a map of the area.

See[edit]
0°0′0″N 0°0′0″EMap of Poreč
Euphrasian Basilica, exterior
45.2286713.593231 Euphrasian Basilica. Daily 09:15—18:00. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, rebuilt in the 6th century during the Byzantine Empire. 
 Streets. Its Decumanus and Cardo Maximus still have Roman structure original forms. 
Do[edit]
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
45.22776213.5946491 Ulixes, Decumanus 2, ☏ +385 52 451 132. Cosy little restaurant. There's the choice of dining in a candlelit stone-clad interior, or outside in the sunny terrace. The service is friendly and helpful, speaking English, Italian, German and Croatian. Between two people you can have a whole fresh fish, with baked vegetables, quite simple and delicious. Prices are quite expensive for Croatia. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Obala maršala Tita, a street along the seacoast
Apartments Lanterna Vagriba. A cluster of apartments about 15 km away from Poreč itself. It’s cheap (£54 a night for a four bed apartment), but you’ll need a taxi to get into town (or wait for the infrequent bus). The places themselves are clean, with dining/living room, shower, balcony and kitchen, there are a few restaurants and bars on site plus a cheesy disco. It’s mainly populated by mainly German tourists with frightening hair and orange tans.
 [dead link] Apartment Sunshine Porec. Self-catering apartment Sunshine Porec is located on the outskirts of Porec, 1.5 km from the sea and 3 km from the center of Porec. Apartment consists of one bedroom, open-plan living room with fully equipped kitchen, bathroom and a balcony with beautiful views over Istrian countryside. Accommodates 2; daily prices from €40. 
 Valamar Club Tamaris. Valamar Club Tamaris is located on the Lanterna peninsula surrounded by  Mediterranean vegetation, open from April to October, 390 rooms: single, twin and family rooms, studio apartments; Valeta à la carte restaurant, restaurant and bar at the pool, cocktail-bar, lobby bar, # wellness contents, beauty center, cardio-gym, outdoor swimming pool and pool for children, whirlpool, pebble beach 100 m from the hotel; prices from €57 single room, €88 double room 
 Valamar Crystal Hotel, Porec, HR 52240. The Valamar Crystal Hotel is family hotel, it's open from April to October. 223 rooms; 453 beds, 6 floors; rooms: single, twin and triple rooms, twin rooms with extra bed, quad rooms and suite; two restaurants and bars; outdoor swimming pool and swimming pool for children, whirlpool; beach 150 m from hotel; other: evening music, sport center, tennis courts near, 2 meeting rooms, internet corner; price: from €72 twin room 
 Valamar Diamant Hotel. The Valamar Diamant Hotel in Poreč, is located in the shade of green pine trees close to the sea, and is a ten minute walk from the picturesque centre of Poreč itself. The wide selection of food, spacious wellness centre, imaginatively designed indoor and outdoor pools, as well as the large number of sporting facilities 
 Valamar Pinia Hotel. Pinia is located directly on the sea, ten minutes walk from Porec’s ancient town centre. For families with children and active holiday. 
 Valamar Rubin Hotel. Open from April to October, 258 air-conditioned rooms; 483 beds, 9 floors, 2 lifts; single rooms, twin rooms with extra beds, triple and family rooms; restaurant, bars; outdoor swimming pool and swimming pool for children; beach 100 m from the hotel; sport and entertainment center; prices starts from €40 single room, €56 twin room. 
Go next[edit]
Buses leave from the town's bus station every couple of hours to Pula and Rijeka. Buses leave about four times a day to Zagreb, the capital of Croatia. You can buy your tickets at the bus stations on the day of departure.






This city travel guide to Poreč is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Poreč&oldid=4106106"