
Porto-Novo is the capital of Benin, located on the coast in the southeastern part of the country. Benin’s second largest city of approximately 250,000 people is a nice change of pace from the bustling Cotonou and has many nice features. 


Understand[edit]
It is an easy one-hour car ride from Cotonou, and only 20 minutes from the beach. 
Porto Novo, named by the Portuguese in the 1500s, still shows significant Portuguese influence. For its size, Porto Novo has quite of bit of culture and tourist attractions. Ouando, a district 3 km north of the city center, has a large market and pretty good nightlife.

Get in[edit]
Map of Porto-Novo
By plane[edit]
Although the capital of Benin, one must fly in to Cotonou and take a taxi (600cfa) to Porto Novo.

By minibus or taxi[edit]
Minibuses and taxis go to Cotonou regularly and are cheap (600cfa for the 45 minute trip).  You will most likely end up at the big market Dantopka in Cotonou unless you choose to descend somewhere before that.  It can be quite intimidating getting out there especially in peak times.   You will be immediately surrounded with people wanting to give you rides.  They will grab your bags and start to usher you to their moto or car, so make sure you have a good handle on things before stepping out of the car.
Also, from the Porto Novo auto gare, there are taxis to Abomey and Lagos, Nigeria.  For traveling north, head to Marche Ouanho and say you are looking for a car for your destination. Every hour or so, when filled, cars leave for Pobé and Ketou.  

By boat[edit]
There are pirogues leaving from Porto arriving less-visited lake villages nearby.  
Ask around down by the lagoon, about 50 m east of the bridge for prices.  No fixed prices, but usually expect to pay around CFA 2,000 round trip.

Get around[edit]
Traffic isn't overwhelming like in Cotonou.  However, like Cotonou, the best way and easiest way to see Porto Novo is by zemidjan.  A full day with driver waiting on you should cost CFA 5,000 maximum.  Not bad.

See[edit]
Great Mosque of Porto-Novo
The unique and perhaps most colorful building in West Africa is the 19th century Brazilian style church now converted into a mosque. A must-see.

6.47322.6174381 Ethnographical Museum of Porto Novo (Museé Ethnographique de Porto Novo). This is an interesting museum that takes an intensive look into the past of Porto Novo’s kings. Displaying a good selection of fetishes, old Yourba king masks, costumes, and some musical instruments, this is definitely worth the CFA 1,000 Entrance fee. 
6.469312.6249852 Honmé Museum (Musee Honmé, Palais Royal du Roi Toffa). Former residence of King Toffa. Well maintained, rather simple, palace is a nice look into how Beninese royalty really lived. 1883 was the year King Toffa signed the treaty with French, agreeing to hand over land. The kingdom of Porto Novo was one of the longest lasting in Africa, lasting up until 1976. Entrance fee CFA 1,000. 
 Jardin Place Jean Bayol. Large plaza which contains a statue of the first King of Porto-Novo. 
 Governor's Palace (Palais de Gouverneur). Home of the national legislature. 
6.4707982.6202843 Museé da Silva. Celebrating Afro-Brazilian influence on the city, this fairly new museum offers a lot of variety. The museum grounds consist of a traditional house, a small library, an open-air cinema showing French films, and a hotel. 
 Celestial Church of Christ's Headquaters (Paroisse Mere de l'Eglise du Christianisme Celeste). Celestial Church of Christ (Eglise du Christianisme Celeste) is a Christian denomination, which has grown world wide. The church was founded by S.B.J Oschoffa. your visit should be free. (updated Dec 2015)
 Lycée Behanzin (Behanzin high school). Lycée Behanzin is the first secondary school of Benin. The school celebrated its centennial in 2015. (updated Dec 2015)
6.4703332.6266114 Great Mosque of Porto-Novo (Grande Mosquee de Porto-Novo). The mosque was established in 1925 with chapel architectural style.   (updated Feb 2021)
Do[edit]
Centre Songhai. Project Songhai has an interesting story and is a good example of a self-sustaining learning community. They attract students from all over West Africa for agriculture studies and they are pioneers in waste management and resourcefulness.   The compound includes a dormitory residence, beautiful open-air conference centers, cyber café, nice restaurants and bar, and a small general store with fresh produce.
There is in mid- January a fete which celebrates Afro-Brazilian legacy is a large festival of food, music, and dancing; definitely worth checking out if you are around. Contact Musee de Silva for more information.
Ask around in Ouando, there is a decent swimming pool.
Across from the National Assembly, there are two nice parks with an outdoor patio/restaurant, and walking paths.

Buy[edit]
There are about four supermarkets with lots of variety.  The big ones to ask for are Champignon, Paniere, Universe 7, all located on the same boulevard through town.

Adjarra Market, located 10 km north of Porto.  Held every fourth day, this market is certainly one of the best in Benin.  One can find unique types of tie-dyed fabric, amazing pottery, unusual musical instruments, various voodoo ornaments, and of course mainstream market items.
Ouando Market is the largest market in the city.
Eat[edit]


This page uses the following price ranges for a typical meal for one, including soft drink:


Budget
Under 600 CFA


Mid-range
700-3000 CFA


Splurge
Over 3000

Budget[edit]
Loving Hut, vegetarian or probably even vegan. +22961 39 29 91
Mid-range[edit]
AfricanFoodseum, 3ème Arrondissement. Kind of a novelty showcasing local fare. +229 62 74 76 28
Splurge[edit]
Hotels Dona, Beaurivage, and Ambassadeurs have restaurants with both big menus and big prices.

Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Hotel Beaurivage, tel. 21 23 99. Rooms from CFA 16,000.  Comfortable, air-conditioned rooms overlooking the lagoon in the western part of town.
Hotel Dona, tel. 22 30 52. Rooms from CFA 17,000.  Just north of city center, this hotel is most expensive but nicer than the others.
Hotel Les Ambassadeurs, +229 64 64 64 10. Hotel with glass exterior juxtaposed with surrounding mud/metal shanties.
MB-Group Hotel[dead link], has a dining area on site as well. +229 63 10 05 64
Connect[edit]
There are plenty of internet cafes that work well especially in the town center. Prices are usually around CFA 400 per hour.

Cope[edit]
Go next[edit]
Dangbo
Aguegue
Avrankou





This city travel guide to Porto-Novo is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Porto-Novo&oldid=4887973"