

Portmeirion village square
Portmeirion is an Italian renaissance style village located on the coast of North Wales, most famous for being the setting of the cult television program The Prisoner.


Understand[edit]
The village was constructed by architect Sir Clough Williams-Ellis on his own private peninsula from 1925 to 1975 and is now run by a charitable trust with the aim of preserving his work, which is quite a task since he constructed a lot of it on the cheap as a personal project and out of his own pocket. It is not a residential village, it runs as a tourist attraction, welcoming day guests (admission is £7.50) and hotel residents, using the village's many cottages as the hotel accommodation.
It has been made famous as the location used in the filming of the 60s cult TV series, The Prisoner, in which it was called 'The Village'. In the 2008 remake of The Prisoner, Swakopmund in Namibia was used as the setting, its architecture referencing Portmeirion's own quaint buildings.

Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
Portmeirion is situated a couple of miles south-west of Porthmadog just off the A487. From the village of Minffordd, Portmeirion is signposted off the main road.

By rail[edit]
Both the mainline Cambrian Coast Railway and the narrow-gauge Ffestiniog Railway serve Minffordd station, which is about 20 minutes walk from Portmeirion.

By bus[edit]
Bus 99B connects Portmeirion to Porthmadog three times a day (not Sundays). Catch it outside the Australia pub on the High Street.

Get around[edit]
52°54′50″N 4°6′7″WMap of Portmeirion
Portmeirion is a small village and everything is accessible by foot. It also includes trails for those who are inclined to a workout.

See[edit]
Sculpture of Hercules in Portmeirion
The colourful architecture of Portmeirion is well worth the trip. The village also contains extensive gardens with a pagoda.

 Clifftop Lighthouse. 
 Camera Obscura. 
 Pets' Cemetery. 
Do[edit]
Walking around Portmeirion to view all the different bits of architecture is a must. The village also includes wooded trails with extensive types of flora, a beach and a swimming pool (for hotel guests only).

Buy[edit]
 Portmeirion pottery brand. was designed by Sir Clough's daughter Susan and is on sale there. 
It also has a few shops for Portmeirion and Welsh merchandise, as well as Number 6's Cottage which houses the Prisoner merchandise shop.

Eat[edit]
 Portmeirion. As well as the hotel, Castell Deudraeth Brasserie, Caffi Glas and Town Hall Self Service Restaurant. 
has a restaurant, ice cream shop, and newly built pizzeria.

Sleep[edit]
52.912129-4.0992131 Hotel Portmeirion. Staying is expensive, starting at about £90 per person, per night. Prices are available on their website or by phone.. (updated Jan 2019)
Nearby locations with a wide choice of accommodation and easy access to Portmeirion include Penrhyndeudraeth, Porthmadog and Harlech.

Go next[edit]







This city travel guide to Portmeirion is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Portmeirion&oldid=4018632"