
Potiskum is a city in Yobe State. It is one of the largest cities in Yobe State and is well-characterized with a business of every kind. Potiskum is notable for having one of the largest cattle markets in Africa and the largest in West Africa. Potiskum is also notable for having a large grain and millet market in Nigeria, which has been estimated to make sales of about 500 bags of grain/millet on the market day (updated 2008).
Potiskum was estimated have a population of about 205,000 in 2006. It is one of the most important districts in Yobe State owing to how industrious and popular it is in the state.


Get in[edit]
11°42′33″N 11°4′10″EMap of Potiskum
There is no airport in Potiskum or Yobe State, however, there are airports nearby by which one can get in through:

10.142211.39281 Gombe Lawanti International Airport (Sani Abacha international airport), Along Bauchi-gombe Rd, Lawanti. The international airport got its name because of its nearness to Lawanti, a small village in Gombe. Gombe International Airport is about 158 km away from Potiskum. A taxi will take you to Potiskum. (updated Jun 2021)
10.4967879.7484292 Bauchi State International Airport (IATA: BCU, ICAO: DNBC) (Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa International Airport, Bauchi, Nigeria), Ahmadu Bello Way (22 km (14 mi) northwest of Bauchi), ☏ +234 803 230 9854. MaxAir and Aero Contractors have flights to Bauchi from Abuja. This airport is about 200 km away. A taxi will take you to Potiskum. (updated Dec 2021)
By bus[edit]
The most common way to get into Potiskum is by bus. There is a lot of bus station that offers services from any state in Nigeria to Yobe State, and you can then take a cab or bus into Potiskum. Some of these services are:

God is Good Motors (GIGM): One of the most popular bus and travel services provider, Air-conditioned bus, comfortability, ability to place order online and even book your preferred seat online.
ABC Motors
and many others.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
 Fika Emirate Palace, Mohammed Idriss way. Emir Palace with museum for visitors and tourism attraction. 
 Tike Cattle Market Potiskum, Maiduguri-Potiskum Road, ☏ +234 810 047 5919. You shouldn't leave Potiskum without paying a visit to the Tike Cattle Market. This is one of the largest cattle market in Africa and it is really a tourists attraction for tourist to Potiskum. 
Do[edit]
 Kasuwar Hatsi/Grain Market Potiskum, Maiduguri-Potiskum Road. Ensure you visit one of the most popular grain market in Nigeria located in Potiskum. 
Buy[edit]
 Goat And Sheep Market Potiskum, Potiskum. Popular goat and sheep market in Potiskum, if you need to shop or buy a goat or sheep, then the goat and sheep market in Potiskum is for you. 
 NPN Market Potiskum, Kasuwar NPN Area, Potiskum. Popular general market in Potiskum 
 Jata Super Market, Old Nangere Motor Park. Supermarket in Potiskum 
Eat[edit]
 Ibrahimawa restaurant, Near Texaco filling station along Jos, Maiduguri - Potiskum Road, ☏ +234 803 579 9037. Great place to eat (updated Dec 2021)
 Victoria Restaurant, ☏ +234 706 538 1165. Great place to eat 
 STwinkles, Mohammed Idriss way. Great restaurant 
 Abba Indomie And Shayi. Popular aboki 'Indomie Shayi', special made indomie noodles. 
Drink[edit]
 Ramin Dorawa Potiskum, Potiskum dorawan mashaya. A bar 
 Victoria Restaurant, Mashaya. A restaurant with bar extension 
 POFCET Guest house. A guest house with drinking extension 
Sleep[edit]
 POFCET Guest house. A guest house 
 Tamir Hotel Ltd, ☏ +234 803 131 9961. A hotel 
 Kaladista Hotel, No. 6, Ajiya Maina Baba Street, ☏ +234 803 679 0178. A hotel 
 Race House GRA, Potiskum. A hotel 
Connect[edit]
All major mobile phone service networks are available in Potiskum but with varying degrees of reliability and usability. It is usual to occasionally experience network outages for all or some of the mobile phone service providers. Such a situation is particularly common in some remote areas of the city. And it is also common for different networks to be more stable and reliable in different locations of the city at different times.
if you are planning a visit to this city, you should consider having multiple SIM cards preferably for all the mobile service providers, since you can't tell which will be more stable and reliable at a time in your location during your visit. And if you will risk not having any of them, you might be better off not risking the MTN network, because, from indications, it seems to perform well than the others, though its rates may be high and its offers and services might be stringent, you are less likely to be concerned of erratic voice and data connection compared to others. The various broadband cellular network available include 2G, 3G, and 4G networks. And unlike many other cities in the country, there is wider coverage of the 4G network in most locations in the city.
Of the service providers, it is Glo (or Globacom), which boasts of fast network speed for internet browsing activities, but that might not be enjoyable in some locations in Potiskum. Airtel is fairly satisfactory for all you might need to connect to the world, including rates and network stability. And 9mobile usually also performs well in internet browsing speed but not without locational limitations.

Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Potiskum is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Potiskum&oldid=4880512"