
Powassan is a town of about 3,300 people (2021) in Northern Ontario.


Understand[edit]

Powassan, "the friendly town", is a small, hockey-loving town 30 km or so south of North Bay. 

History[edit]
Taken from a First Nations (Aboriginal) name that means "bend", Powassan's original settlement was at the bend of the South River. The location today is known as the Bingham Chute, and is where the hydro-electric plant is. The village of Powassan began around 1880 with the construction of a sawmill and a grist mill. Mill employees built their houses in that section of the village.
A construction camp for the Northern and Pacific Junction Railway was established at Powassan in 1885. This section of track completed in 1886, and became part of Canadian National Railways in 1923.
In 1886, the operation of the Northern and Pacific Junction Railway between Gravenhurst and Nipissing Junction led to the development of a second settlement near the railway.
The current Municipality of Powassan came into being in 2001 as a result of the amalgamation of the Town of Powassan, Town of Trout Creek and the Township of South Himsworth. The two main communities in the town are Powassan and Trout Creek.

Get in[edit]

 Ontario Northland. Two buses a day from North Bay at 7AM and 4PM (20 min, $8.45). One bus a day from Toronto at 7:15AM (5 hr 15 min, $71.75). (updated Dec 2018)
A taxi from North Bay would cost $70-85 (Dec 2018).
Get around[edit]
Map of Powassan
See[edit]
Do[edit]
 Powassan Mountain Conservation Area, Catherine Avenue. Various walks up and around the mountain. It's behind Eastholme just one street back from Main St, turn right at the bridge on Memorial Park Drive heading east. (updated Dec 2018)
To the west lie many nice lakes, nice fishing and access to the South Shore of Lake Nipissing.
Wade's Landing, the South River, and other camps give access to the water.
Nipissing Village is a tiny village with one of the nicest Canada Post offices in Ontario (go check it out).
Bowman's Chute is a small falls near the bridge over South River. Access is going northwards on the first road on the west side of the Bridge over the South River.
Canoe the South River from near Powassan (Bingham Chute).  You must portage the Nipissing Power Plant, however the wooden barrel type turnstock tube taking water to the dam turbines is worth the trip.
After Bingham Chute, the South River meanders its way to Lake Nipissing.
Near downtown Powassan, there is a nice hike in The Pines up to a nice view from the mountain.
Events[edit]
Trout Creek Winter Carnival, Trout Creek Community Centre, mid-February.  Bingo, men's and ladies' hockey tournaments, children's games, dog sleigh rides, a dance, and a pancake breakfast on Sunday. Weekend $10, $5 for a single day, ages 12 and under are free.
Powassan Maple Syrup Festival, Main Street and in the Sportsplex arena, late April 27. Free outdoor festival with lumberjack competition, Scottish Heavy Event, Kidz zone in the Legion, live entertainers on the stage, vendors on Main Street and in the Sportsplex, sheep-shearing demonstration, pony rides and petting zoo, pancake breakfasts, baked bean lunch, antique car and tractor display and lots of tasty maple treats.
Windsong Music Festival, outside of Powassan. Only 200 tickets are sold. windsongmusicfestival@live.ca, +1 705-724-3852.
Trout Creek Agriculture Fall Fair, Trout Creek Community Centre, late August. Light horse show, baby show, displays of flowers, vegetables, baking, homecrafts & junior exhibits, kids races & games, spaghetti supper, pancake breakfast, tradeshow, BBQ, mini horse show.
Powassan Smoke N Spurs Festival,  Purdon Line, early September. Kids activities, exhibits, displays, food, live entertainment, truck & tractor pulls, horse pulls, ATV pulls, plus the rodeo with all traditional rodeo events.
Powassan Agriculture Fall Fair, Powassan Fair Grounds, late August/early September. Parade, heavy horse pulls, demolition derby, music by local musicians, midway, light horse show, exhibit, poultry vendors, animal displays.
Buy[edit]
Powassan Farmer’s Market, Main Street South, beside the Beer Store, May to mid-Oct, 9AM-1PM rain or shine. Local vendors offer early vegetables,  homemade bread, pies, squares and other baking; jams, jellies, pickles; local freezer meats; goat milk soaps and lotions; herbs and perennials; bedding plants and annual flowers; crafts, sewing, jewellery.
Winter Farmers Market, 250 Clark, Saturdays from mid-Nov, 9AM-1PM. Baking, soap, veggies, crafts, micro greens, preserves, face-painting, succulents, maple syrup, traditional hand-forged items.
Eat and drink[edit]
 Kudos Cantina Restaurant & Bar, 852 Main St, ☏ +1 705-724-1400. Tu-Th 10AM-8PM, F Sa 9AM-8PM, Su 9AM-7PM. Traditional food and new Mexican cuisine. (updated Dec 2018)
 China Garden, 458 Main St, ☏ +1 705-724-6167. Su-Th 11:30AM-8PM, F Sa 11:30AM-9PM. Chinese. (updated Dec 2018)
 The Hawk and Fox, 500 Main Street, ☏ +1 705-724-5767. Fish and chips, fajitas, burgers, ice cream. (updated Dec 2018)
Sleep[edit]
There are hotels 20 km away in North Bay.

Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
North Bay








This city travel guide to Powassan is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Powassan&oldid=4783393"