

Overlooking Rencontre East from the Atlantic Ocean
Rencontre East (often pronounced "Rencounter") is a small coastal village in Southern Newfoundland on Fortune Bay. The village has a small population of 115 residents (2021). Unlike other remote villages along the south coast, Rencontre East's population has been holding steady through the 2010s.


Understand[edit]
Overlooking the government dock in the Rencontre East Harbour
This small community is not connected to any surrounding areas by road but is accessible by scheduled ferry service. The town's slogan proudly proclaims that it is "Isolated and loving it".
All of the roads are dirt, and ATVs are the main source of transportation. The community uses breakwaters to hold the roads in place and keep the water from washing them away. The main industry is cod and lobster fishing.
Rencontre East was the location of one of only a few molybdenum mines in Canada's history. The mine, discovered in 1882, was at Ackley City at Rencontre Lake just north of the town. The mine was closed soon after, with only 2000 tonnes of mineral being exported to New York City because the USA was, at the time, a neutral country in WW1. The mine is also located within the Ackley City Batholic.
The town has one grocery store, a volunteer fire department, an all-grade school and a community centre. There are two churches, one Anglican (St. Stephen's) and one Catholic (Church Of The Sacred Heart).
The town's population has held steady over the past decade, due largely to local residents being employed with the salmon aquaculture, which has enticed some young people to stay, and young families to move back.
Rencontre East is a moderate tourism site in the summer, when people from all over travel to this little town for a view of the scenery and a trip to Rencontre Lake. Local tourism company Outport Quest, will offer Glamping accommodations, boat tours on Rencontre Lake Fjord, and hiking excursions. The web site for this company is www.outportquest.ca
Aquaculture in Rencontre East has became fully operational, replacing the traditional cod and lobster fishery.  More than 20 of the town's people work on three sites. There are more than 2 million salmon in the sites.

Get in[edit]
 MV Terra Nova, toll-free: +1-888-638-5454. The Provincial Ferry Service serves the town Thursday to Tuesday year-round from Pool's Cove (1 hr 15 min). From Bay L'Argent (1 hr 45 min), there is service Mid-June to mid-Oct Thursday to Tuesday, and in winter only on Th F Sa Su. One way: adult $6.75; child, student or senior (60+) $3.75. (updated May 2019)
Get around[edit]
There are no cars in Rencontre East, and only small streets. In addition to walking and biking, residents use ATVs to get around.

See[edit]
Excellent views are available for hikers who aren't afraid to trail blaze a little bit.
See salmon jumping the gorge into Rencontre Lake.

Do[edit]
As well as a freshwater pond just north of the village, a river flows towards the village from a fairly large lake several kilometers away, on which some residents have built cabins. The lake is not  accessible to travelers, though the path is nice, and excellent hiking can be done that results in a great view of the environs and ocean.
Hiking up the cliff on the east side of the river affords not only an excellent view, but also the opportunity to swim in any of several ponds. Even in the warmest part of the year, the water in both the river and ponds is fairly cool.
Stroll the trails and boardwalks to look for bald eagles, or go ATVing, kayaking or boating. A local tourist company will offer yurt rentals, boat tours, and hiking excursions. The web site is www.outportquest.ca

Buy[edit]
There is one general store in the community .

 Judy's General Store, 1 Main Rd (west of the ferry wharf along the shore), ☏ +1 709 848-3476. Includes a liquor store. (updated May 2019)
Eat and drink[edit]
There are no restaurants or bars, so your food and drink will come from the general store.

Sleep[edit]
Several camping spots can be found along the river mentioned above. A local tourism company will be offering Glamping Pod rentals and boat tours. www.outportquest.ca

Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Rencontre East is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Rencontre_East&oldid=4677527"