


For other places with the same name, see Richmond (disambiguation).

Richmond is a huge city with several district articles that contain information about specific sights, restaurants, and accommodation.
Richmond is the capital of Virginia. Richmond has a population of 227,000 (2020) and the adjacent counties of Henrico and Chesterfield combine to create a local population of more than 1.3 million people.


Districts[edit]
Richmond has been called a city of neighborhoods, each one with a distinct look, flavor, and identity. All are recognized by Richmonders as unique neighborhoods, almost as though the city were a collection of several small towns.

Districts of Richmond


 
The Fan home to many historic homes, parks, and monuments



 
Museum District & Carytown this district has a lot of early 20th century housing, and it is home to many of Virginia's great museums, while Carytown offers top rated restaurants and shops



 
Downtown (includes Shockoe (split into Shockoe Bottom and Shockoe Slip), Jackson Ward and Tobacco Row)Richmond's central business district has many tall towers



 
West End a very busy and vibrant area, with many high-end shopping areas and hotels



 
Southside the parts of the City of Richmond which lie south of the James River, and the former city of Manchester



 
Northside home to many diverse neighborhoods, which are made up of houses with a variety of architectural styles, including Arts and Crafts Bungalows, Victorian, Romanesque Revival, and Queen Anne houses



 
East End (includes Church Hill, Union Hill, Chimborazo, Fulton)includes historic neighborhoods such as Church Hill, Fairmount, and Union Hill, more modern developments such as Fulton, Powhatan Hill, Fulton Hill, and Montrose Heights, and public housing communities




Understand[edit]
Richmond skyline looking across James River
Richmond is one of the oldest American cities. The site had been inhabited by the Powhatan Indians, before it was settled in 1607 by Capt. Christopher Newport and Capt. John Smith, both English. It was named after the London suburb of Richmond-upon-Thames, by William Byrd II. The settlement, little more than a trading post for furs, hides, and tobacco ,did not become a city until 1742, and became the state capital of Virginia in 1782.





Black Americans in Richmond

Richmond is much more progressive and diverse in culture than most areas of the South. Historically, Blacks in Richmond enjoyed certain limited liberties that would have been unthinkable elsewhere in the South. Most notably, nearly one in five African-Americans in the city was free. Black barbers and seamstresses owned their own businesses and, along with black ironworkers and other skilled free laborers, owned houses as well. Even as Richmond exported slaves throughout the Lower South, those slaves who remained in Richmond labored and lived under far different circumstances than slaves elsewhere. While the great majority of female slaves used to serve as domestics in their owners’ houses, male slaves would often work in Richmond’s tobacco-pressing factories, flour mills, the massive Tredegar Ironworks and other businesses, alongside free blacks and whites.      


Despite the city's position in the confederacy, Richmond is not a typical Southern town. Richmond was and still is an industrialized urban center with strong economic ties to the North and West as well as the South. It was home to slaveowners and slaves, white immigrants and free blacks. 





Eastern Europeans in Richmond

Richmond is known for its significant Eastern European and Jewish cultural influence. Unlike most immigrants in cities further north, the majority of Richmond's immigrants have been in the area since the mid-1800s at the latest. It is because of this that they are very well established and often considered to be a part of Richmond's old money elite. Companies such as Ukrops Homestyle Foods, Thalhimer, Weinstein Properties, Markel Corporation, Schwarzschild Jewelers and the Sauer Company are all named for wealthy Richmond immigrants. Neighborhoods such as Carver and Sauers Gardens were also founded by and named for Eastern European and Jewish immigrants. Despite this, the Shockoe Bottom entertainment area is where slave rebellion leader Gabriel had his head hung from a pike.


Despite the city being very Pro-Union, during the American Civil War, it served as the capital of the Confederacy. When the Northern Army invaded Richmond, the fleeing Confederate government set fire to the city's munitions stores and government records they were unable to take with them. The fire grew out of control when winds picked up, and most of the city burned. The soldiers from the Union helped to put out the fires upon their arrival. 
Though much of its colonial past has disappeared, it is rich in Civil War history and lore. There are, among other things, a Civil War prison site on Belle Isle, the house Robert E. Lee lived in, the state Capitol (which Thomas Jefferson designed and said was inspired by the Maison Carrée at Nimes, France) which served as the Confederate Capitol during the war, a museum of the Confederacy, the original Confederate White House, and Hollywood Cemetery in the heart of the city where more than 18,000 Confederate soldiers are laid to rest. However, the 60-foot-tall Robert E. Lee Monument that starting in 1890 dominated Monument Avenue was removed on September 8, 2021, in response to protests, showing how this city has changed. Richmond has the most forged iron outside of New Orleans, and one of the first African American neighborhoods (Jackson Ward). 

Visitor information[edit]
37.54522-77.436691 Richmond Visitor Center, 405 N 3rd St (at Marshall), ☏ +1 804 783-7450. 9AM-5PM daily. 
37.51-77.332512 Airport Visitor Center, 1 Richard E. Byrd Terminal Dr., Ste. A; Lower Level - Baggage Claim Area; Sandston, ☏ +1 804 236-3260. M-F 9:30AM-4:30PM, Sa Su noon-5PM. 
37.71132-77.449333 Bass Pro Shops, 11550 Lakeridge Parkway, Ashland, ☏ +1 804 615-5412. Thursday-Monday 10AM-2PM. 
Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
Richmond is on I-95 less than 2 hours south of Washington DC. I-64 runs east-west through the city which provides easy access to Norfolk, Virginia Beach, Williamsburg, and Charlottesville. In addition, several other major roadways such as the Powhite Parkway (Route 76), the Chippenham Parkway (Route 150), and Route 288 connect Richmond to other areas such as Chesterfield and Midlothian.

By train[edit]
See also: rail travel in the United States
Two Amtrak train stations serve Richmond.

37.6178-77.49691 Staples Mill station. Richmond's primary station, located in an older section of suburban Henrico County, and is served by Northeast Corridor trains as well as several lines continuing south toward the Carolinas and Florida. Travelers heading downtown should plan on a $20-$25 taxi fare. Amtrak also offers an Thruway Bus connection to downtown.   (updated May 2015)
37.534722-77.4291672 Richmond Main Street Station. The historic downtown station is served by the few Northeast Corridor trains terminating at Newport News, and the segment between Staples Mill and Main Street can be affected by delays as the train traverses CSX's ACCA rail yard, a major freight hub.   (updated May 2015)
By plane[edit]
See also: Flying in the United States
37.505-77.31943 Richmond International Airport (RIC  IATA) (in nearby Sandston, about a $20 taxi ride east of downtown). is served by most major domestic carriers plus discounters JetBlue and Southwest.   
Chesterfield County Airport (FCI  IATA) to the south of the city and Hanover County Airport (OFP  IATA) to the north handle general aviation.

By bus[edit]
Greyhound Bus Lines has a large terminal located on Boulevard...about 4 miles (6 km) west of Downtown Richmond and 1 mile (2 km) north of the Museum District.
The city is also served by Eastern Travel, a Chinatown bus line that picks up and drops off passengers at its station near the intersection of Boulevard and Broad Street. It is half the price of Greyhound, and while it only runs one departure and one arrival a day (at 7AM and 10PM) is relatively reliable. This bus serves two destinations from Richmond: Washington, DC and New York City. Many more options of this type are easily reached in both of these cities.
Megabus offers service from Philadelphia, Newark, DE, Baltimore, Washington, D.C., Hampton, Durham, Charlotte, Fayetteville, Columbia, Athens, and Atlanta. Buses arrive and depart at the Richmond Travel Plaza on E Main St across from Main St Station.
FlixBus offers service from many cities such as New York City and Washington, D.C.

Get around[edit]
Map of Richmond


By car[edit]
The easiest way to get around Richmond is by car.  Roadside parking spaces are relatively easy to find but be in the look-out for no parking areas - particularly the "Fan District." The city is laid out on a grid system and is easy to navigate, however, many streets in the oldest parts of the city are very narrow and one-way.

By bus[edit]
The Greater Richmond Transit Company, or GRTC, operates a bus service across the city and partially into neighboring Henrico and Chesterfield Counties.  Their phone number is: +1 804 358-4782. The bus system has been free to all users since March 19, 2020. Current grant funding will allow for free rides through June 2024. The system is best utilized if you are already downtown, and need to go throughout the city itself. Many find it easiest to park at an all day garage and use one of the multiple lines along Broad street to avoid paying for more parking. This includes Pulse, a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) line.

See[edit]
Tredegar Iron Works
Highlights include the Richmond Railroad Museum in Southside, Richmond National Battlefield Park and the Tredegar Iron Works on Tredegar Street downtown, and the Science Museum of Virginia in the Museum District. Monroe Park named after James Monroe the 5th president of the United States (1817–1825).

Do[edit]
The James River[edit]
The section of the James River running through Richmond offers many opportunities for a day out.  Due to Richmond's location at the fall line, the James River has many rapids right downtown which are great for white water rafting.  The rapids are class III but may become class IV in the right weather conditions.  The ones closest to downtown can be quite dangerous without an experienced guide.  However, there are many smaller rapids just slightly upstream which can safely be run in a raft or innertube. One can travel at a lazy pace, stopping to repeat rapids or swim through quickly. In order to run the rapids in this way, one must have two cars, parking the first at the bottom exit point and the second at the entry point.
There are parks on both sides of the James River above downtown, but the Pony Pasture section of the James River park is an excellent place to begin a few hours on the rapids. Just make sure to pull out when you see a sign on the right side of the river with an arrow directing you to do so; otherwise you will have great difficulty on the larger rapids.  The river is quite clean and mostly surrounded by woods for this section. Make sure to try the rope swing under one of the railroad bridges.  Many people simply swim around in between the smooth rocks at Pony Pasture without leaving that section.  There are excellent trails through the woods on both sides and this section is used for the XTERRA Triathlon in June.
Due to the river's currents, sudden drop-offs and large (and sometimes hidden) rocks, it has been known to get the best of even those with years of experience.  As serene as it may look in places within the city, many locals have stories about someone they know who got in trouble with the river due to not taking the proper precautions, even just a few feet from the river bank. Do not risk it: when rafting or tubing, always wear a life jacket.  Do not wade or swim outside of areas known to be safe by locals, such as between the rocks at Pony Pasture. In addition, be aware of weather conditions, as the river is prone to severe flash flooding during rainstorms, which changes conditions very rapidly and without much warning.

Live music[edit]
Despite churning out a good number of internationally known rock, indie, metal, punk and R&B acts, many outsiders don't think of the former capital of the Confederacy as being a hotbed of diverse musical arts.  However, largely thanks to the thriving arts scene associated with and around Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond has quite the music scene. Clubs offer a diverse selection of genres from rock, indie, metal, punk, hardcore, alternative, blues, jazz, jam, country and bluegrass.  In addition to international and national acts that come through town, there is a vibrant (and often fiercely independent) local music scene which has spawned a good number of internationally renowned acts.

Craft alcohol tourism[edit]
Head over to the Scott's Addition neighborhood, at the corner of Broad and Boulevard for 12 alcohol producers within walking distance of each other - breweries, cideries, meaderies, and distilleries await you. Dubbed the Scott's Addition Beverage District, the group consists of the breweries: Ardent Craft Ales, Bingo Beer Co., Isley Brewing Company, Strangeways Brewing RVA - Scott's Addition, Three Notch'd RVA Collab House, Vasen Brewing Company, The Veil Brewing Company; cideries: Blue Bee Cider, Buskey Cider, Courthouse Creek Cider; meaderies: Black Heath Meadery; and Reservoir Distillery.

Buy[edit]
The West End has good shopping options.

Eat[edit]
Many of Richmond's fine restaurants may be found in the historic district downtown called Shockoe Bottom, in the Downtown area.

Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Cope[edit]
Style Weekly - "Greater Richmond's alternative newsweekly."
Brick Weekly - "A comprehensive cornucopia of music, arts & entertainment for Richmond."
Stay safe[edit]
Richmond has a fairly high crime rate, but the vast majority of serious crime occurs in and around the city's public housing projects, located mostly in the northeast, eastern and southside sections of the city. Muggings and purse snatchings, however, occur throughout the city, so be careful when walking or standing around at night.
Popular night-spots around downtown, such as The Fan District, the areas around Virginia Commonwealth University and Shockoe Bottom can become dodgy at night, so it is best to avoid walking alone or on side streets. While all of the night spots are generally safe, it is also wise to avoid any confrontations inside or outside of nightclubs, especially in Shockoe Bottom, as incidents have sometimes lead to stabbings or shootings. This goes for fights between other people; just go the other way.
In addition, much of the free and cheap parking in Shockoe Bottom is located under the freeway and train overpasses and have many dark areas; be aware of your surroundings when returning to your car after dark. As always, use common sense and avoid walking or parking in any areas that seem unsafe.
Most areas of the city are also notorious for car break-ins, so it is always best to have nothing visible inside your car, including shoes, clothing or trash if you park on the street, in open lots, or in unsecured parking garages.
Avoid swimming or wading in the James River within the city, as the currents and dropoffs are notorious for getting the best of even those most experienced with the river. If swimming, restrict yourself to public-access beaches or stretches of rocks such as Pony Pasture or Belle Isle's northern side, or avail yourself of local guidance. In addition, if on the riverbanks, be aware of weather conditions, as some areas around the riverfront are prone to flash-flooding.

Go next[edit]
Colonial Williamsburg - Located approximately 50 miles (80 km) east of Richmond on I-64 in the historic district of the town of Williamsburg, this "living history museum" in recreates Virginia's 18th century capital as it appeared preceding and during the American Revolution.


Routes through Richmond




Washington, D.C. ← Ashland ←

 N  S 

→ Williamsburg/Petersburg → Newport News/Norfolk


Washington, D.C. ← Alexandria ←

 N  S 

→ Petersburg → Fayetteville


Washington, D.C. ← Alexandria ←

 N  S 

→ Petersburg → Raleigh


Charleston ← Charlottesville ← Jct N  S ←

 W  E 

→ Williamsburg → Norfolk


Washington, D.C. ← Ashland ←

 N  S 

→ Petersburg → Fayetteville


Washington, D.C. ← Ashland ←

 N  S 

→ Petersburg → Raleigh


Weston ← Harrisonburg ← Jct N  S ←

 W  E 

→  END


Charleston ← Amherst ← Jct N  S ←

 W  E 

→ Williamsburg → Norfolk


Annapolis ← Hanover ←

 N  S 

→ Petersburg → Fayetteville








This city travel guide to Richmond is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Richmond&oldid=4883956"