
Ridgefield is a town of 25,000 people (2010) in Connecticut.


Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
Danbury Municipal Airport (DXR IATA) is a small two-runway public general aviation airport about 10 miles away from the center of town in Danbury, Connecticut.
Westchester County Airport (HPN IATA) [1] in White Plains, New York, about 40 minutes away. It is a public airport served by eight  airlines including Air Canada. The airport features one three-level terminal with six gate spaces. The small airport has become popular for its non-stop destination flights and for avoiding the crowds and long lines you would encounter in major airports.

By train[edit]
Metro-North Railroad - Branchville Station, 47 US Hwy 7 & 787 Branchville Road. Part of the New Haven line that goes through New Haven, Fairfield, Westchester, Bronx, New York and Hudson counties. Frequented by commuters and visitors going into New York City. The train station is 54 miles away from Grand Central Terminal with a travel time of 1 hour and 38 minutes.

Get around[edit]
Ridgefield has many speed traps, so stay below the speed limit to avoid tickets.

Car services[edit]
Connecticut Limo ☏ +1-800-472-5466. Offers transportation one-way or round-trip to airports including JFK, LaGuardia, Bradley and Newark. Private cars, limos and party buses are also available to charter.
See[edit]
 The Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street, ☏ +1 203-438-4519. Tu-Su noon-5PM. Diverse exhibitions featuring established and emerging artists. Educational programs and workshops for children and adults are offered at the museum. Walk-through tours are also offered along with the admission fee. Adult $7, college student $4, free admission on Tuesdays. 
 Ballard Park, on the corner of Main Street and Gilbert Street (in the center of town). The park was donated to the town in 1964 by the estate of Elizabeth Ballard, and features five acres of beautiful trees, plants, and flowers. There is a gazebo and popular children’s playground in the park. The park is home to weekly concerts in the summer and other town events. The entrance is a focal point in the downtown area. 
Do[edit]
 The Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Street, ☏ +1 203-438-5795. A beautifully restored auditorium that features a stage with high quality lighting and sounds for musical and dance performances, retractable curtains and screen for movie showings and a venue for community events like the Ridgefield Symphony Orchestra Concert and the Annual Town Meeting. Upcoming events, shows and movie listings can be found on its website. 
Buy[edit]
 Ridgefield Thrift Shop, 15 Catoonah Street, ☏ +1 203-438-3328. Typical thrift shop with a large variety of items including men’s and women’s apparel, jewelry, accessories such as belts and handbags, furniture, books, and fabric. The shop is updated with season-appropriate items and everything is sold at extremely reasonable and low prices. It has a section of luxury apparel featuring designer brand names Hermes and Chanel. 
Eat[edit]
 Elms Inn, 500 Main Street, ☏ +1 203-438-2541. Experience the acclaimed “Yankee Cuisine” of Chef Brendan Walsh at the Elms Restaurant & Tavern. Housed in an 18th-century clapboard inn, the restaurant and tavern welcome guests into a 21st- century food lover’s haven worthy of four-star ratings, and Wine Spectator’s prestigious Award of Excellence. 
 Chez Lenard. A gourmet hot dog stand on the sidewalks on downtown Main Street. A unique French spin on the classic hot dog stand, the server dons a chef’s hat and the menu features many different combinations of condiments. The hot dog stand has been a Ridgefield staple since it began in 1978, and has expanded with additional carts and a catering service. 
 Caputo’s East Ridge Café, 5 Grove Street, ☏ +1 203-894-1940. Su-Th 11:30AM-1AM, F Sa 11:30AM-2AM. An Italian restaurant set in a continental style venue. It features a cocktail lounge, dining room and seasonal outdoor seating. The four different menus include brunch, luncheon, dinner and a shortened bar menu. Delicious food, generous portions and all at reasonable prices. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
 The Elms Inn, 500 Main Street. A 1799 historic New England inn set among 3 acres of grounds and gardens. 23 rooms and suites. 
 West Lane Inn, 22 West Lane, ☏ +1 203-438-7323. Located in the historical district of Ridgefield, off of Main Street. The inn was built in 1849 and combines the beautiful colonial style. A continental breakfast is included, and can be enjoyed in the Inn’s terrace or breakfast room. Bernard’s restaurant is next door to the hotel. 
Go next[edit]


Routes through Ridgefield




Pittsfield ← Danbury ←

 N  S 

→ Wilton → Norwalk


Stamford ← Wilton ←

 SW  NE 

→ Bethel → Danbury










This city travel guide to Ridgefield is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ridgefield_(Connecticut)&oldid=4775988"