
Rockwood Park is a conservation area in Rockwood, Ontario, near Guelph, operated by the Grand River Conservation Authority (GRCA).  It has a varied karst landscape, of rocky cliffs, natural potholes, caves and a lake. The Rockwood Mill is a stone mill in the park that was built in 1885. The park receives over 65,000 visitors a year, and is popular for hiking, weddings, and watersports. In summer, car camping is a popular way to get out of the city for a weekend while enjoying the park at a more relaxed pace.


Understand[edit]

The park is open year-round for day use. Camping is available from May 1 to Oct 15.
The park offers group facilities, washrooms, playgrounds, and sports fields.
Rockwood's geological history that has left it with glacial bluffs, potholes and caves. The glacial bluffs were formed during the most recent ice age, which ended 11,000 to 16,000 years ago and range from 5 to 30 metres deep and 7 to 200 metres wide.

Climate[edit]
Get in[edit]
Map of Rockwood Park
The park's 43.61248-80.148241 Gatehouse is located on Fall St S, south of Alma St (Hwy 7). During staffed hours, the gatehouse also provides information, first aid, and sells firewood and ice. Self-registration to pay for permits is available when the gate is not staffed. 

By bus[edit]
43.6138-80.1492 GO Transit. GO buses between Guelph, Georgetown and Brampton stop in Rockwood at Alma St and Fall St, at the northern edge of the park, and a short walk from the park's gate. From Guelph, connections are available to Waterloo and Hamilton. VIA Rail and GO trains service Georgetown, providing connections toward Toronto and Sarnia (updated Jun 2023)
By car[edit]
From Toronto, it's an easy 84 km (52 mi) west via Highway 401, north on Guelph Line (County Road 1), and finally east on Highway 7 until Fall St S.

Fees and permits[edit]
Day Use (2023): 

Preschool (5 and under) free
Child (6-14) $3.10
Adult (15-64) $7.08
Seniors (65+)/People with disabilities $5.75
Get around[edit]
The campgrounds, canoe launch and mill ruins are accessible by car, with parking lots nearby. The beach, caves, and the rest of the park are accessed on foot. There are no  cycling trails in the park, and bicycles are only permitted on interior roads.

See[edit]
Harris Woollen Mill
 Potholes. Not the kind that flatten your tires in the spring, these potholes are of glacial origin. In the vicinity of the Eramosa River, there are over 200 potholes that vary in size and diameter. They were created by hard debris like pebbles and boulders that were left by the Wisconsin glacier and caught in eddies in rapidly flowing melt water, making holes in the bedrock (some several metres deep) over the course of thousands of years. 
43.61102-80.144381 Harris Woolen Mill Ruins. Explore the limestone ruins of a small woolen mill that operated from the 1880s until the 1930s. The stone structure replaced a wooden mill that burned down in the early 1880s. Today's ruins have been preserved since most of the structure was destroyed by arson in 1967. 
43.61358-80.14092 Caves. Apr 1 - Oct 15. The caves include stalactites, columns and flowstone. Long pants and long sleeves, a flashlight and helmet are suggested.  The caves are only accessible in spring and summer; the caves are occupied by hibernating bats in autumn and winter. (updated Jul 2018)
Do[edit]
Harris Mill Dam
43.60689-80.151341 Swimming. A sandy beach on the Eramosa River is located within the park. No lifeguards are on duty. (updated Jun 2023)
43.61034-80.144432 Paddling. Canoe or kayak in the Eramosa River from a boat launch near the parking lot in the eastern park of the park, or rent a canoe from park staff at the beach. (updated Jun 2023)
Fishing - carp, bullhead, bass and trout can be found in the Eramosa River. Like the rest of Ontario, fishing is regulated by the provincial government and most people will require a licence.
Hiking - the best way to see the range of unique natural features throughout the park is on foot. Two trails form a 3 km (1.9 mi) loop around the river, and take hikers along cliff tops, wetlands, and glacial potholes. Another out and back hiking trail connects the dam near the ruins to the caves.
Buy[edit]
Ice and firewood can be purchased at the gatehouse. When the gatehouse is closed, several stores (including a gas station, hardware store, grocery store and pharmacy) are within 500 m (1,600 ft) of the gatehouse outside the park in Rockwood.

Eat[edit]
There is a food concession at the top of the hill near the beach. It is open weekends in June and daily in July and August. 
A trailer on the beach offers scooped ice cream. 

Drink[edit]
You can bring your own alcohol to your registered campsite, except during the Victoria Day (late May) and Labour Day (first week in Sep) long weekends, when alcohol is banned.

Sleep[edit]
Camping[edit]
43.6081-80.15431 Grand River Parks, ☏ +1-877-558-GRCA (4722). Rockwood has 46 serviced campsites (electricity and water), 16 full-service (water, electricity and septic) and 43 unserviced sites. Up to six people are permitted per campsite. Check-in is after 2PM and checkout is before noon. 
Group camping: Four group campsites are available for supervised youth groups or large gatherings that require a minimum of five camping units. Contact park staff to make a reservation.
Camping fees range from $57-68 per night, depending on site quality and services (electricity and water). Additional vehicles cost $14 each. “Premium” sites may be larger, be closer to natural features such as water, have more trees, and/or be more private.

Stay safe[edit]
The hiking trails take visitors along steep gorges and cliffs. Follow marked trails, pay attention to signage, and keep a close eye on children. 
Be careful in and around the water; remember that the beach is not patrolled by lifeguards. Although the water can appear as peaceful as a small lake, it is reservoir on the Eramosa River. Currents can change suddenly; stay back from unstable shorelines after significant rainfall or when water levels are high. In winter, take caution near the frozen river. Water continues to flow underneath the surface, and it can be difficult to tell how thick the ice is from the shore.
You're unlikely to run into a bear or get lost in the woods looking for your campsite here, but it is still wise to remember the basics for a safe camping trip. Store all your food and garbage in your car or in the park's waste containers to avoid attracting wildlife. Never leave a campfire unattended, and obey fire restrictions during dry weather.

Go next[edit]
Guelph — the nearest major community to the park, a small city with a limestone downtown that is easy to explore on foot. The city is host to several local music and cultural festivals.
Region of Waterloo — west of Guelph, a cluster of towns and small cities are known for universities and technology companies, but depending on the season, visitors enjoy the maple syrup festival in Elmira, the impressive farmer's market in St. Jacobs, or the largest Oktoberfest in the world outside of Munich in Kitchener.
Elora and Fergus — smaller towns northwest of Rockwood on the Grand River. The Elora Gorge attracts hikers, tubers and kayakers. Both towns have historic downtowns with small shops and restaurants, and the countryside offers more opportunities for recreation, with parks, conservation areas and trails.
Hamilton — to the south of Rockwood, known as the "City of Waterfalls", for all the waterfalls on the Niagara Escarpment not far from the city's downtown. It's easy to enjoy a hike in the afternoon, and sample the city's growing food, brewery, and arts scene late into the evening. For much of Ontario, Hamilton is the gateway to the Niagara Peninsula.





This city travel guide to Rockwood Park is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Rockwood_Park&oldid=4684967"