
Roseville is a suburb of Detroit, located about 5 miles north.


Understand[edit]
Roseville, Michigan is a city in Macomb County and is surrounded by St. Clair Shores to the east, Fraser and Clinton Township to the north, Warren to the west, and Eastpointe to the south.  It is largely a residential community that has a significant amount of manufacturing and retail businesses thanks in part to the major roads that pass through the town.

Get in[edit]
Map of Roseville (Michigan)

Roseville is accessible by the I-94 and I-696 freeways.  Further, Roseville is also accessible by Gratiot Avenue (M-3) or Groesbeck Highway (M-97).  Roseville has no nearby passenger train stations or airports.

Get around[edit]
You can get anywhere in Roseville by car, bus, or manual transportation; taxis are available but are both hard to find and expensive.
Airport Shuttle Services are available by reservation. Rates are $59.00 from Roseville to the Detroit Metropolitan Airport. Contact Roseville Airport Shuttle (586) 945-2570.

Do[edit]
Roseville has a variety of shopping and dining options for people to explore.  There are also a bountiful amount of local parks that are generally well-maintained and can host a variety of different events.

Buy[edit]
Roseville has a significant amount of shopping plazas along Gratiot Avenue that feature well-known retail stores such as Best Buy, JCPenney, Guitar Center, and many more. It is also home to several independent stores in the Utica Junction Business District as well as throughout other places in the city.

42.5346-82.91671 Macomb Mall, 32233 Gratiot Ave, ☏ +1 586-293-7800. Macomb Mall is a versatile yet inexpensive mall that features  Hobby Lobby, At Home, Dick's Sporting Goods, and Kohl's as their anchor stores. The store has the same variety of retailers (such as Hot Topic, Bath and Body Works, and Victoria's Secret) that you'll find at other malls and a few restaurants.   (updated Feb 2022)
 [formerly dead link] Record Time, 27360 Gratiot Ave. Local music aficionados with the most discriminating taste shop here, as this record store will have everything from the most obscure bands to the most well-known and commercial. They also feature a large selection of LPs and used CDs. 
 The Road Show, 28500 Gratiot Ave. The Road Show is a store that specializes in pure counterculture. There are plenty of band t-shirts, black light posters, iguanas, incense, and humorous gifts abound; not to mention an age-restricted section of the store with a few tobacco and adult-related items. 
Eat[edit]
There are many various nationally-known fast-food or fast-casual restaurants along Gratiot Avenue and Groesbeck Highway, which include McDonald's, Taco Bell, Panera Bread, Dunkin' Donuts, and Jimmy John's; as well as many nationally-known sit-down restaurants such as Applebee's, Chili's, and Outback Steakhouse. There are also many Michigan-based restaurants located within the same proximity that are endeared by the local population.

 Mr. Paul's Chop House, 29850 Groesbeck Hwy. Mr. Paul's is a high-end/high-class steak house that features a delectable selection of steaks, seafood, and wines for even the most discriminating palate. 
 National Coney Island, 28901 Groesbeck Hwy. Detroit is renowned for their Coney Island hot dogs and National Coney Island is the most accessible chain throughout the Metro Detroit area. This location is open 24 Hours as is their other location at 27027 Gratiot. 
 Ram's Horn, 29220 Gratiot Ave. Ram's Horn is a Michigan-based dine-in restaurant chain that offers breakfast, lunch, and dinner in a variety of different ways at an affordable price. This particular location is open 24 Hours on most days. 
 Tubby's Submarines, 27875 Gratiot Ave. Tubby's has been providing the metro Detroit area with quality submarine sandwiches for over 40 years. The restaurant serves both hot and cold sandwiches and is renowned for their special sandwich sauce that distinctly make it a Tubby's sub. 
 BD's Mongolian Barbeque, 29004 Gratiot Ave. Based out of nearby Royal Oak, BD's offers diners the opportunity to create their own stir fry using a wider variety of meats, vegetables, noodles, and spices. After the customer creates their own stir-fry, they hand the bowl to a chef who cooks it in front of them. You're allowed the option to pay for one bowl or pay to eat as much as you'd like. 
Drink[edit]
 Eastgate Bar, 26449 Gratiot Ave. Eastgate Bar offers a pub-type setting and has an open kitchen. The crowd picks up toward the evening and they usually have events on the weekends. 
 Club FT, 26061 Gratiot Ave. While there are many dive bars in Roseville, this one ranks among the best with their cheap drink specials and excellent staff. 
 Dooley's Irish Pub, 32500 Gratiot Ave. A newly-emerging local bar has taken over the previous Wild Woody's location and has turned it into a pub-themed bar. By day, the bar caters to the male crowd who likes to eat and drink while watching sports. By night, the bar caters largely to the 21-25 crowd that likes to listen to Top 40 music. 
 Izzy's, 29400 Gratiot Ave. Connected to a bowling alley, Izzy's usually features live cover bands during the weekends and caters to the middle-aged working-class crowd on most nights (though the younger crowd is known to frequent the place, too.) 
 Club 11, 16315 E 11 Mile Rd. Despite the fact that it's a bar, Club 11 is well known locally for their burgers. It is a favored place for local sports fans to go watch games without having to contend with a large crowd. 
Sleep[edit]
The overwhelming majority of Roseville's Motels are within a mile radius of each other going along 13 Mile Road and Little Mack Avenue.  These include  Best Western, Baymont Inn, Microtel, Extended Stay, and Red Roof Inn.

Go next[edit]
Taking I-94 East (due north) will lead to Port Huron, Michigan or Sarnia, Ontario, Canada.  Taking I-94 west (due south) will lead to Detroit.  Taking I-696 West will lead to Farmington Hills, Michigan until it connects to I-96, which then leads to the western part of the state.  I-696 East terminates in Roseville.



Routes through Roseville




Detroit ← St. Clair Shores ←

 W  E 

→ Port Huron → becomes 


Lansing ← Warren ←

 W  E 

→ St. Clair Shores → Port Huron via 









This city travel guide to Roseville is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Roseville_(Michigan)&oldid=4877270"