
San Germán is a city of 32,000 people (2020) in the Porta del Sol region of Puerto Rico. It's best known for its Spanish colonial architecture.


Get in[edit]
Parque de Santo Domingo in the Historic Central District, with Iglesia Porta Coeli at the far left
San Juan: Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport
Aguadilla: Rafael Hernández Airport
Ponce: Mercedita Airport
By car[edit]
From Ponce Mercedita Airport it is a 47-minute drive on PR-2 West. 
From Rafael Hernandez Airport in Aguadilla it is a 55-minute drive on PR-2 East.
From San Juan, follow Autopista 52 (Expreso Luis A. Ferre) towards Ponce.  At the PR-52 terminus, follow PR-2 for about 25 miles towards Mayaguez.  Exit at the PR-122 / Casto Perez Ave. exit on PR-2.

Get around[edit]
There are limited transit options, but the central district is easily navigable on foot. Driving is difficult with lots of traffic in mid-day.

See[edit]
San Germán's main sight is its colonial architecture, all narrow, twisty alleyways and Spanish buildings in pastel colors, some crumbling, some newly repaired.  The old city is centered around the leafy plazas of Parque de Santo Domingo and Plaza Francisco Mariano Quiñones.

18.081019-67.0432871 San Germán Pueblo (downtown San Germán). See the historic Roman Catholic church, Spanish-style recreational plaza, and the municipal buildings surrounded by streets and shops. You can drive around the pueblo or park your car and walk around the square and into the plaza. The Spanish law, which regulated life in Puerto Rico in the early 19th century, stated the plaza's purpose was for celebrations and festivities.  (updated Apr 2022)
 Iglesia Porta Coeli, Parque de Santo Domingo. W-Su. Dating back to 1606, this is one of the oldest churches in the Americas.  It now hosts a museum of religious paintings. 
 San Germán de Auxerre. A Spanish baroque church straddling the two plazas.  Even older in theory (a chapel was first built here in 1573), but the present structure dates mostly to 1737, when it was rebuilt after an earthquake. 
Do[edit]
 Atléticos de San German. Professional basketball team with the most history and championships in the Pro basketball league in Puerto Rico (BSN). League runs usually from April thru July. 
 Farmacia Martín, Calle Ruiz Belvis # 22, ☏ +1 787-892-1122. M-F 7AM-10PM, Sa 7AM-9PM, Su 9AM-9PM. One of the city's oldest pharmacies. At Parque de Santo Domingo. 
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
San Germán is the gastronomic center of the area. Throughout the years, several restaurants have served both locals and visitors. Two restaurants, institutions in the town, are Mike's Steak House, with its famous churrasco, and Palermo Pizzeria & Italian Restaurant. 

 Mike's Steak House, Ave. Casto Perez #122 San German (grom Carr#2, Ave. Casto Perez will take you less than 1 mile to your left, in the Las Lomas Shopping Center), ☏ +1 787-892-3581. M-Th 11AM-11PM, F 11AM-midnight, Sa noon-midnight, Su noon-11PM. Mike's Steak House is a gastronomical institution. Known in San German and throughout the island for its "Churrasco al Carbon", it also offers other USDA Choice steaks, mofongo rellenos, chicken, fish and shrimp dishes. There is a private pub-cafe type bar, separated from the main lounge area. 
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Hotel Oasis is a quaint bed & breakfast at #72 Luna St in the heart of town.

Go next[edit]
If you've made it this far, don't miss the beaches of the southern coast.

Cabo Rojo
Guánica
La Parguera







This city travel guide to San Germán is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=San_Germán&oldid=4580558"