
Sarafovo (Bulgarian: Сарафово) is an outlying neighbourhood (suburb) of the city of Burgas on the Bulgarian Black Sea Coast. A separate village until 1987, it's been dubbed "the Beverly Hills of Burgas" due to its well-off population. Burgas itself is the fourth largest city in Bulgaria, with a university, pedestrianised shopping areas, city parks and an excellent beach.


Understand[edit]
The combination of sea, sun and convenient transport connections makes Sarafovo an attractive resort. The number of hotels and apartment complexes increases every season. The area is particularly popular with Irish and Norwegian tourists seeking a break in an authentic Bulgarian village. There are no high-rise buildings and the area retains its sense of peace and relaxation. Tourism is the main economic activity in Sarafovo, but unlike some larger resorts, Sarafovo does not close down at the end of the main holiday season, and retains a 'lived-in' atmosphere all year round.

Get in[edit]
By bus[edit]
Bus no. 15 goes between South Bus Station and Sarafovo. Regional and long distance buses stop at the roundabout near the airport.

By road[edit]
Sarafovo is conveniently close to Burgas city centre (10 km), the seaside town of Pomorie (7 km), Nesebar, and the beach resort of Sunny Beach (25 km).

By plane[edit]
Sarafovo is 500 m from Burgas International Airport. There are dozens of flights each day, yet the flight paths do not go over Sarafovo. Visitors appreciate the proximity of the airport without being disturbed by it.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
42.5580727.48011 Lake Atanasovsko (Атанасовско езеро). A nature reserve home to many species of plants, birds and fish. (updated Apr 2023)
Do[edit]
Beach – Sarafovo has a wonderful wide, sandy beach, where you can do watersports and swimming.
Sports – If you are into extreme sports, a few minutes drive will take you to an amazing Quad Bike/ATV safari around the hills of Marinka, a village near Burgas with splendid nature.
42.5317327.489541 Open-air lye and mud baths (Лечебни басейни с луга и лечебна кал) (4 km away). 08:00–19:00 (seasonal). Therapeutic pools. Massage offered in a hut behind the pools. Paid showers and toilets are next to the nearby restaurant Na Lugata. Or you can wash the mud off in the sea for free. :) 5 лв. (updated Jul 2022)
Buy[edit]
There are numerous boutiques in Sarafovo, selling clothes and electrical goods as well as beach toys and inflatables. Fruit and vegetable stalls can be found on the main streets. There are also mini supermarkets, pharmacies and an Internet cafe.
There is a Billa supermarket on the street going to the airport.

Eat[edit]
42.56004427.5230941 Hotel Mirana restaurant (Мирана), Bratsigovo 10, ☏ +359 88-503-42-45. Wide ranging menu. Excellent quality and good prices. (updated Apr 2023)
42.56133227.5225132 Biraria Kedara (Бирария "Кедъра"), Angel Dimitrov 57, ☏ +359896879493. Great lunch menu, low prices. (updated Apr 2023)
Drink[edit]
All the hotels and complexes have good bars, including Sarafovo Residence, Plaza, Atlantis and others.

Sleep[edit]
There are a range of accommodation options in Sarafovo.

 Bourgas Airport Hotel (Plaza), Angel Dimitrov Street. Clean, comfortable and great value. It has a bar, restaurant, 3 swimming pools (including an indoor pool) fitness suite, sauna, massage, garden, conference facilities and children's playroom. Rooms all have mini kitchen and sitting area with TV and DVD player, iron microwave and hob. Some rooms with sea view. Approx 300 m from the sea. Open all year. 
 Mirana Hotel. Family-run hotel with comfortable accommodation, restaurant and swimming pool. 
 Sarafovo Residence. Large apartments, fitted to a high specification, 3 swimming pools, children's playground, bar/restaurant, car hire and excursions. 
42.5629727.531271 Atlantis complex, Angel Dimitrov 58. High standards hotel/apartment complex with numerous swimming pools, bars, restaurants, nightclub, etc.  Studio, one- & 2-bed apartments for hire all year round. British/Irish style restaurant with beef steaks, pasta, fish, pizza (excellent quality). Good nightlife with super bars and music. 
Go next[edit]
Burgas – The city Sarafovo is officially a part of. There are several bus stops in Sarafovo where the bus no. 15 going downtown stops—Timetable here.
Pomorie – 10 km east of Sarafovo. Buses run regularly from the roundabout near the airport. The Pomorie Thracian Tomb is located near the village of Pomorie. It is open for visitors only in summer. There is another salt lake (Lake Pomorie) with free mud baths and Salt Museum. You can also take advantage of the paid services of the local specialized hospitals like saltwater pools/jacuzzi and mud baths.
Nesebar – A small town under the UNESCO World Heritage conservation program. It is extremely picturesque and attractive. There you can see the Old Metropolitan Church (4 A.D.) and amazing architectural details from the Byzantine epoch. Buses run regularly from the roundabout near the airport.
Sunny Beach – A large holiday complex just 1 km from Nesebar. In summer the two villages almost merge in one big party and holiday center. Sunny Beach is sometimes called the summer party capital. There are more than 200 hotels and thousands of clubs, bars and pubs. Buses run regularly from the roundabout near the airport.




Routes through Sarafovo




Varna ← Nesebar ←

 N  S 

→ Burgas →  Malko Tarnovo/Dereköy








This city travel guide to Sarafovo is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Sarafovo&oldid=4824323"