
Selinsgrove is a small town in Snyder County, Pennsylvania. 


Understand[edit]
Susquehanna Valley Visitor’s Bureau  +1-800-525-7320
Get in[edit]
The town lies approximately 45 minutes north of Harrisburg, PA and one hour south of Williamsport, PA. Located in the central part of the state, Selinsgrove is approximately 3½ hours from Philadelphia, three hours from New York, 3 hours from Washington-Baltimore and 4 hours from Pittsburgh.

By plane[edit]
40.8211-76.86421 Penn Valley Airport (SEG  IATA), 100 Airport Road (a few miles south of Shamokin Dam). It serves private and charter planes, and express service from cities such as Harrisburg, Pittsburgh, and Philadelphia.   
Harrisburg International Airport (MDT IATA) Harrisburg International Airport is about 64 miles and 1 hour and 15 minutes from Shamokin Dam. Harrisburg International is served by seven major airlines which provide nonstop daily service to 12 domestic and 1 international destination. Several major rental car companies have a presence at the airport complex. Parking for the physically disabled is in all three parking lots. Special handicap accessible buses are available 24 hours a day for those parking in the SmartPark, long-term lot. Restrooms throughout the terminal are handicap accessible. In addition, there are five private unisex companion-care restrooms in the terminal building. A TDD/TTY phone is available to contact hotel shuttle and off-site rental car providers in the baggage claim area of the terminal building. For more information on any of these services, contact Customer Information Desk at ☏ +1 717 948-5900 between 7AM and 11PM.
The University Park Airport (SCE IATA) is just outside State College. Served by United Airlines, Delta, and American. There is car rental service on site. Secure parking is provided.
Wilkes-Barre - Scranton International Airport (AVP IATA) in Northeastern Pennsylvania. It is about two hours northeast of Shamokin Dam and is served by many major airlines and all major rental car companies.
By train[edit]
Selinsgrove lies approximately 60 miles (45 minutes) north of Pennsylvania's capital city of Harrisburg. That city serves as a vital station on Amtrak's Keystone and Pennsylvanian train routes. Trains from Boston, New York and Philadelphia arrive in Harrisburg as well as trains from points west, including Pittsburgh. After arrival, Selinsgrove is a short drive or bus ride away. Taxis are also available at the station.

By boat[edit]
Selinsgrove lies along the Susquehanna River Water Trail There is an improved Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission boating access to the Susuquehanna River on the Isle of Que. Primary boating using shallow-draft, lightweight fishing boats, canoes and inflatables is accessible. Parking is available. A short walk up Pine Street brings you in to the centre of town.

By bike[edit]
Narrow and/or unpaved shoulders along most side streets make biking around town (off the highway) challenging. Route 11 from Shamokin Dam to Northumberland is lovely with a view of the river. There is, however, heavy truck traffic along this route. South of town on Old Route 11 (Market Street) is an enjoyable ride.

By car[edit]
Selinsgrove is accessible to Interstate 80, which runs East-West about 15 miles north of the area. Pennsylvania state Routes 11 and 15 merge north of Harrisburg and serve as the main transportation artery through this region of central Pennsylvania. Most of the area's shopping districts and neighborhoods lie north  of Selinsgrove along Routes 11 and 15. South of Selinsgrove, 11/15 connects with Interstates 81, 83 and the Pennsylvania Turnpike west to Pittsburgh and east to Philadelphia.

Parking[edit]
A car is the best way to navigate the Selinsgrove area. On street parking is available in the downtown along with a designated public lot. Parking is free on the street and in the municipal lot. Parking around the university is at a premium. Much of it is permit only.

By bus[edit]
Selinsgrove is served by Greyhound/Trailways bus service downtown. Greyhound service connects to Harrisburg International Airport, the Harrisburg Transportation Center (Amtrak) and numerous other transportation hubs throughout the area including the neighboring cities of Lewisburg and Sunbury.

Get around[edit]
Map of Selinsgrove

A car or bike is the recommended way to see and do things in the Selinsgrove area. Once you venture out of the small boro, there are no sidewalks. There are no safe bike paths. The shoulders of the roads are narrow and often unkempt. Skeleton service is provided by the Union-Snyder Transportation Alliance via bus, but these buses must be notified and will only pick up customers who call ahead of time. Rides are based on distance from starting point to ending point. Selinsgrove is also served lightly by taxi service but, like the buses, these must be called ahead of time. 

See[edit]
Selinsgrove.
Historic attractions[edit]
Governor Snyder Mansion The former home of Pennsylvania Governor Simon Synder, for whom Snyder County is named, is on Market Street in downtown Selinsgrove. The building houses a private business.
Old Lutheran Cemetery The grave of three time Pennsylvania Governor Simon Snyder is here. Made of Quincy granite, the monument has brass reliefs and is topped with his life size bust was erected by the state in 1885.
Selinsgrove Area High School The first high school building was built in the 1930s through funding from "The New Deal". The building was designed by Lawrie and Green architects of Harrisburg. It is a concrete with steel framing construction, masonry walls and has a red brick exterior. It is topped with a cupola. Several additions and modifications have been made over the years. Student created murals adorn the walls in many of the corridors and stairwells.
Art and museums[edit]
 Lore Degenstein Gallery. Located at Selinsgrove's Susquehanna University, the Degenstein Gallery is a museum of material culture past and present. 
Theatre and performances[edit]
Degenstein Center Theater at Susquehanna university, the Degenstein Center Theater hosts numerous A-list music acts throughout the year as well as theater performances put on by university students.
 Bucknell University, Lewisburg, PA, ☏ +1 570 577-2000. The Weis Center for the Performing Arts offers many cultural events for the region. It is a 15-minute drive from Selinsgrove north on Route 15. 
Do[edit]
Major Anthony Selin Park, on Sassafras Street, is equipped with horseshoe, quoit and basketball courts and soccer fields. There is a sophisticated play area for small children which is called Kidsgrove.
Best Bowl Route 522 west of Selinsgrove. in Penn Township. +1 570-374-2522 Complete proshop. Bumper bowling and bowling leagues for all ages available. A snack bar and a game room are on site. Call for hours and fees.
Selinsgrove Speedway The largest dirt racetrack in the northeast, Selinsgrove speedway is home to some of the largest races as well. A regular show at Selinsgrove Speedway will consist of qualifying events and  main events for 358 Sprint Cars (25 laps), Late Models (20 laps), Pro Stocks (12 laps), and Roadrunners (12 laps). Races take place on Fridays and Saturdays between March and October. Admission is $10 for adults, $8 for students (age 12-17) and free for children 11 years of age and younger.
 AMC Classic Selinsgrove 12, 1 Susquehanna Valley Mall Dr, ☏ +1 570 374-2049. A multiplex movie theatre located at the back of the Susquehanna Valley Mall complex. Comfortable stadium seating. Ample Parking. Call for movies and times. Discounted matinees. 
Sunset Skating Rink 2755 N Susquehanna Trail, Shamokin Dam. +1 570 743-6060. An indoor roller rink that is open year round. Ample offstreet parking.
 Hoopla's Xtreme Family Fun, 15 Stettler Ave, Shamokin Dam, ☏ +1 570-743-0920. Attractively landscaped fun course. Open daily in season. Parties available. 
There is an outdoor public swimming pool on Linda Lane, off Rte 522. Parking is available. Annual memberships and daily admissions are sold. Hours vary with the facility open from around Memorial Day to Labor Day. The pool offers an eating pavilion, shaded lounge area and tables with a concession stand and various drink machines.
Susquehanna Sports Place An attraction known for its eclectic collection of sporting opportunities, SSP has batting cages for softball and baseball, a mini golf course, an arcade and many other attractions. Located at East 18th Street, Hummels Wharf.
Shikellamy State Park in Snyder, Union and Northumberland counties. The 78-acre Shikellamy Overlook section is on the western shore of the Susquehanna River and overlooks the confluence of the West and North Branches of the Susquehanna River. Picnic shelters and tables are available in the park on the Union County side.
Learn[edit]
Susquehanna University Affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the most liberal of Lutheran denominations, Susquehanna is a four-year university of approximately 2,000 students in downtown Selinsgrove. Susquehanna has particularly strong programs in business and communications.  Its campus has been rated as the eighth most beautiful in the nation.
Buy[edit]
Market Street Shopping District Lining Market Street in Selinsgrove are a few picturesque shops and restaurants, most of which are locally owned. From a bridal boutique to an upscale men's wear store to the pubs and breweries all are easy walking distance within the downtown.
 D J Ernst Books, 27 N. Market St, ☏ +1 570 374-9461. Used and old tomes including local history and classic literature. 
 Graci's Flowers and Gifts, Market Street, ☏ +1 570 374-4923, toll-free: +1-877-266-6873. Offers an extraordinary variety of high quality collectibles including hundreds of items in the themed buildings sets. Classes are offered on gardening techniques. 
Middleburg Farmers Market a few miles west on Route 522 between Kreamer and Middleburg. ☏ +1 717 837-2222 Livestock Auctions, household items sold at stands, fresh fruit, vegetables, and meats. Open air/seasonal, Tuesdays 7AM-3PM
Susquehanna Valley Mall along Routes 11 & 15 in Hummels Wharf, this is the largest mall in the local area, It features a wide array of mid-range shopping and department stores. There are four anchor stores including JC Penney, Bon Ton, Sears along with a Boscov's. There are also smaller clothing options like FYE, Waldensbooks, American Eagle and Christopher Banks. A grocery store and a banks are located in the mall complex.
Old Trail Tackle & Sports Shop 225 S Old Trail, Shamokin Dam. +1 570 743-7380. Bait and other fishing supplies. Helpful advice about where fish are biting and best bait in a friendly atmosphere.
Colonial Candlecrafters  Rte 15, Lewisburg. Features the area's largest selection of candles, candle making supplies and home scents.
Eat[edit]
 Meiserville Inn Restaurant and Pub, Rte 104 Mt. Pleasant Mills, ☏ +1 570 539-8526. Smoke-free dining room. Dining hours W Th 5-9PM, F Sa 11AM-9PM. Reservations Welcome at all times. Recommended on F Sa. 
 BJ's Steak and Rib House, 17 N. Market Street, ☏ +1 7870 570-374-9841. Famous for its barbecue ribs and Chicago steaks, and especially its "Bongo Bongo Dip" (a creamy spinach dip served piping hot with garlic bread), BJ's is a must-visit for all casual diners in the area. The food is second to none in Selinsgrove and is reasonably affordable. Reservations are available but not required. 
The Kind Cafe Market St. Selinsgrove. +1 570 374-0663  The local answer to national coffee chains, the Kind Cafe has first-rate coffees at half the price of its national competitors. The cafe also serves sandwiches and frequently features the live music of local high school and college bands.
 Skeeter's Pit BBQ, Rte 15 in Shamokin Dam, ☏ +1 570 743-2727. Casual dining with quick service. Diners enjoy a stunning view from an overlook of the Susquehanna River from atop a bluff. The lights of Sunbury sparkle in the distance. 
Buy a Pennsylvania Fishing License[dead link]
Drink[edit]
 BJ's Pub, 17 N Market St, ☏ +1 570 374-9841. In the evening, BJ's transforms from a restaurant to the pub from which it gets its name. The combination of good service, good drinks, and familiar faces draws locals to this bar and forever leaves a good impression on visitors. Reservations are available but not required. 
 Bot's Tavern, ☏ +1 570 374-9074. Catering more the college (lower price range) market, Bot's is often packed wall-to-wall with Susquehanna and Bucknell University students as well as the large contingent of local students who return to Selinsgrove from their respective colleges during breaks. 
 Selin's Grove Brewing Company, ☏ +1 570 374-7308. The Selin's Grove Brewery produced many in-house brews of all colors and flavors, from light to amber, from black and tan to mild. 
Sleep[edit]
 Econo Lodge & Suites, 3249 North Routes 11&15, Shamokin Dam, ☏ +1 570 743-1190. Mexican restaurant and breakfast restaurant on site. Easy access via traffic light to Routes 11&15. Walking distance to many fast food restaurants down a busy four lane highway that has no sidewalks. 
 Hampton Inn, 3 Stettler Ave, Shamokin Dam. 3 Stars according to AAA. Starting at $95/night. 
 Selinsgrove Inn, 214 North Market St, ☏ +1 570 374-4100. Downtown Selinsgrove. Walking distance to downtown, university, and high school. 
Connect[edit]
The Daily Item  is the region's daily newspaper. Offers events calendar, church directory on Saturdays, local assistance contact numbers. There is a satellite office on Market Street, Selinsgrove.
Selinsgrove's rural nature can be seen in its cellular phone coverage quality. Selinsgrove is served locally by Cingular Wireless, Verizon Wireless and Sprint-Nextel Wireless. T-Mobile does not natively serve Selinsgrove and users without national plans will pay roaming fees for calls made in the area. T-Mobile users will be able to roam on Cingular Wireless which operates 1900 MHz towers throughout the area. Reception on all four carriers is much improved from earlier years and visitors can expect to have full reception in almost every part of town.  The rural farms and fields outside the area have lower reception that is sometimes more spotty.
There are two Wi-Fi hotspots in the area. They are located at Dunkin Donuts and Applebee's Restaurant both of which are north of Selinsgrove on Routes 11&15 in Hummel's Wharf.
Telephone numbers dialed on cellular telephones must include the area code as well as the 7-digit phone number. No preceding "1" is necessary. Local calls made from land-line phones in the area do not require an area code. Long distance codes require both the preceding "1" and the area code.
Middleburg and Sunbury are local calls. Lewisburg is a long distance call.

Cope[edit]
Go next[edit]
Joseph Priestly House Located minutes outside Sunbury in Northumberland, the Joseph Priestly House is believed to be the first to be the first scientific laboratory in the United States. Open Wednesday through Saturday, 9AM to 5PM, Sunday, noon to 5PM The last tour of the house begins at 4PM The Joseph Priestly House is closed on Mondays, Tuesdays, and certain holidays. Admission is $4 for adults and $2 for children.
Clyde Peeling's Reptiland Route 15 , Allenwood. +1 570 538-1869, +1-800-REPTILAND. Reptiland is an AZA accredited zoo specializing in reptiles and amphibians. Since opening in 1964, Reptiland has provided the public a link to the less-loved members of the animal kingdom. School groups, families and individuals with an interest in natural history agree - Reptiland offers a perfect blend of environmental education and entertainment.
Mifflinburg Buggy Museum 598 Green St., Mifflinburg. +1 570-966-1355 A restored buggy workshop with belting and pulleys, tools, machinery and forges. Hours May through October – the museum complex (Visitor Center and historic buildings) are open Thursday through Saturday, 10AM to 5PM, Sunday, 1PM to 5PM Last tour begins no later than 4PM November through April – the Visitor Center only is open Thursday through Saturday, 10AM to 5PM Group tours are offered Monday through Saturday 9AM to 5PM from April to November (weather permitting). Twenty minute drive from Selingrove.
Knoebels Amusement Park Route 487 Elysburg. +1-800-487-4386. Free admission, free parking, free picnicking, and free entertainment. Two world class, wooden roller coasters. Catch the Brass Ring on one of the largest and oldest Carousels in the world! Coming soon..."Flying Turns" Knoebels customized version of an old standard coaster-type ride.
Packwood House Museum 15 No. Water St., Lewisburg. +1 570 524-0323 A beautiful historic building housing an extensive collection of antiques and art. Purple Heart Highway Partner.
Slifer House Museum 80 Magnolia Drive, Lewisburg. +1 570 524-2245 A Victorian home built in the mid 1800s, located on the campus of River Woods.
Penns Creek Pottery, Rte 104. 65 Pottery Lane Mifflinburg. +1 570 837-3809 nestled against Jack's Mountain along Rt. 104. A wide array of beautiful pieces of handmade pottery. While perusing, owner Bill Lynch will happily sit back and impart his vast knowledge of the area and the various techniques in"throwing." After making a purchase, just ask, and Bill might give you a tour of the kiln in which your piece of pottery was created and the original granary equipment (dating back to 1908).
T&D's Cats of the World, a refuge for exotic animals. Get within five feet of lions, tigers and leopards or let an emu eat right from your hand! Rte 104 Penns Creek.
Rainbow Massage 36 Silvermoon Lane, Lewisburg. +1 570 568-0606.
Campus Theatre Market Street, Lewisburg. +1 570 524-9628.
Street of Shops 100 N. Water St. Lewisburg. +1 570 524-5765 125 shops in mall and restaurant inside restored historic woolen mill.
For additional exploration of heritage, culture, dining and shopping in the Central Susquehanna Valley, be sure to check out Lewisburg, PA and Sunbury, PA, both part of the Central Susquehanna Valley Triad. Amish farms are also nearby in Lancaster County. Hershey Bears ice hockey, Red Barons baseball and Wilkes-Barre - Scranton Penguins hockey are all within a short drivable distance from Selinsgrove. State College, home of Penn State University, is also about 65 minutes away and offers additional cultural, sports, and entertainment options.  Longer distances will take you to the Atlantic coastline.



Routes through Selinsgrove




Scranton/Williamsport ← Shamokin Dam ←

 N  S 

→ Harrisburg → Hagerstown/Frederick








This city travel guide to Selinsgrove is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Selinsgrove&oldid=4709556"