
Sewickley, located 20 minutes by car outside of the city of Pittsburgh in western Pennsylvania, is a quaint resort town offering many boutique shops, services, and restaurants.


Get in[edit]
The town of Sewickley is located 20 minutes from Downtown Pittsburgh and close to many major routes of transit. The Pittsburgh International Airport is also a short simple 15 minute commute.
It is located off of route 65 North, right up Broad Street Across the Sewickley Bridge.
Coming from Downtown Pittsburgh by car take 279 North to Route 65 and follow all the way until the Sewickley Bridge and make a left into the downtown shopping district on Beaver Street. It is a very small town with many shops and things to do.

Get around[edit]
The village of Sewickley is easily walkable, and definitely encouraged.
It is recommended to have a car though to view the Estates in Sewickley Heights as the area is very hilly and quite expansive.
Parking in the town can sometimes be a pain, the metered spots on the streets are 25 cents per half hour and you are likely to find a spot in the parking lot located across from Safrans Supermarket off of Thorn Street.
Also parking on the residential streets is free, but requires a walk, but once again this is recommended.

See[edit]
There is much to be seen in Sewickley.

 Sewickley Heights History Center, 1901 Glen Mitchell Road. Great Museum with beautiful grounds & trails. The History Center showcases the Country Homes Of Pittsburgh's early 1900s Industrialists and the wonderful equestrian traditions of the community. In September, the Center holds its annual Antique Car, Carriage and Horse Show that includes a visit from The Sewickley Hunt with Hounds, as well as Dinner & Dancing. 
Fern Hollow Nature Center, Glen Mitchell Road. Nice place to spend a day in the park. Also in September it is host to the Sewickley Fall Music Festival, with sounds of country, folk, and blue grass music.
Houses up around Sewickley Heights. There are many large estates with great houses. Many very old with classic looks to them. You can also find the homes of many local celebrities as well, such as Lynn Swann, Franco Harris, and Mario Lemieux.
Art galleries[edit]
There are many art galleries in Sewickley as well all with different tastes in art.

 Que Sera Sera. 
 International Images. 
 Elan Gallery. 
 Sewickley Frame Shop. 
Gallery Walk - Held in the beginning of fall and spring, with each gallery featuring something special and restaurants featuring specials as well. Check the Sewickley Chamber of Commerce website for upcoming dates.
Do[edit]
You can spend a full day in town just walking through the Business District and walking through all the stores.
The town is definitely looked at as a cute resort town.

Spas[edit]
While in the village, why not stop at one of the many spas located in the Business District.

Sewickley Spa is probably one of the most well known spas in town, with nationally-known small business owner Dorothy Andreas Tuel, they offer all kinds of spa services from massages to a basic manicure and pedicure.
Esthetics of Sewickley is a neat little spa located on the second floor of a building on the corner of Thorn and Beaver Streets, get a manicure overlooking the bustling business district. Facials here are really great as well as inexpensive compared to other places in town.
Vans Aveda Salon, featuring a store with all Aveda Products and a Spa on the Second Floor
Vita Hair Salon on Thorn Street, is also a place to go for a fabulous haircut. Great service, great location, and great decor.
Eat[edit]
Many restaurants are located throughout Sewickley. All of them offering different menus, so you are bound to be find something you will enjoy.

Sewickley Cafe offers American Bistro style food and a great wine and drink list. Opened in 1998, the restaurant has always been acclaimed in town. The back patio is open in the summer for garden dining on their terrace, great for any meal, breakfast, lunch, or dinner and is open 7 days a week.
Sewickley Confectionary which offers several types of homemade gelato as well as ice cream.
Sewickley Hotel is also American Bistro, but offers more of a bar crowd, but in a very nice atmosphere. Open 7 days a week and on Sundays for brunch from 11 until 7.
Tony R's Pizza offers some great pizza pies for delivery, and they have been rated best pizza in town for years.
Ultimate Pastry Shoppe -  Has been around for 20 years and they have great cookies and Bill. one of the owners. makes some really fun cakes. Ask about his Zebra Cake with Airbrushed icing.
Vocellis Pizza, Great for those looking for a late night food delivery as they deliver until 1AM.
Drink[edit]
All of the restaurants in town have a full bar.
The Sewickley Cafe is good for its 30 bottle wine list with everything by the glass, as well as full bar with great cocktail list. The Bar is great for a pre dinner drink or for stopping by for a glass of wine after work.
The Sewickley Hotel has a dive bar feel to it, but definitely very diverse clientele.
PIzza Roma is the neighborhood watering hole. Bands every so often and typically packed every night with locals, stop by and you will definitely meet someone to talk to.

Sleep[edit]
There are no hotels in the small town, the Sewickley Country inn was shut down years ago. The inn was used in the movie shooting of Jack.
Across the river in Moon township on University Boulevard you can find lots of chain hotels and things to do as well to make your visit to the Sewickley area enjoyable.

Connect[edit]
Check out the Boroughs site for any links or the chambers website for lists of all the businesses in the area
You will find that many of the locals in town offer help to anyone in need. This seems to be a trait of the people of Sewickley. Always looking out for others.

Go next[edit]







This city travel guide to Sewickley is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Sewickley&oldid=4625563"