
Shirdi (Marathi: शिर्डी Śirḍī) is a town in North Maharashtra, in India. It is located 185 km east of the Arabian Sea shoreline. Shirdi was where the saint Sai Baba lived till his samadhi in 1918. Today, it is a pilgrimage centre and millions of his devotees from all over the world come each year to pay their respects.
The best time of the year to visit Shirdi is January through March. April to June is summer, followed by the monsoon. Pilgrim arrival peaks between September and November when many Hindu festivals occur. Baba's death anniversary is commemorated in the month of October, the exact date depending on the Hindu calendar.
Some of the most important festivals in Shirdi are Dussehra, Guru Poornima and Baba's death anniversary. During this time lakhs of devotees come to Shirdi.


Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
19.68861174.3788891 Shirdi Airport (SAG  IATA) (14 km southwest at Kakadi). has flights to Hyderabad, Mumbai and Surat. For international travellers, the best option is to come to Mumbai by plane and then drive by private taxi.   (updated Jun 2023)
By train[edit]
Sainagar Shirdi railway station
19.78079274.4806882 Sainagar Shirdi  CR  (station code: SNSI). Served by several express trains, including a Vande Bharat Express from Mumbai CSMT. There are also express trains from Chennai and Mysore (via Bangalore).   (updated Jun 2023)
By bus[edit]
There are many buses connecting Shirdi to cities such as Mumbai (250 km), Hyderabad, Pune (200 km), and Nashik (80 km). There are abundant, very convenient bus packages from Hyderabad. The road connectivity between Mumbai and Shirdi is good, except in certain stretches. Convenient overnight buses also ply this route. It takes around 4 hours from Mumbai to Shirdi. It takes around 5 hours to travel from Pune to Shirdi by bus.

By taxi or shared van[edit]
From Kopargaon, taxi to Shirdi (₹200-300 on full fare) or a shared van (₹20-30 per person).
From Manmad, taxi to Shirdi (₹600-800 on full fare) or a shared van (₹50-80 per person).
From Nasik, taxi to Shirdi (₹800-1000 on full fare) or shared van or MSRTC bus (₹90-100).
By car[edit]
Shirdi is accessible via the Ahmednagar-Manmad State Highway No.10, approximately 83 km from Ahmednagar and 15 km from Kopargaon.
It is approximately 240 km from Mumbai on the Eastern Express Highway.
Distance between Pune and Shirdi is about 204 km, and travel time via car is about 3 hours 40 minutes.
Get around[edit]
Map of Shirdi
Shirdi is not a big town. As the town has grown around its main attraction - the Sai Baba temple - almost all major sights and sounds are within walking distance from anywhere in Shirdi. You can ask the travel agent to organise your tour.

See[edit]
The main attractions are the temple where Sai Baba's samadhi is located, the former dwelling place of Sai Baba called Dwarakamayi, and the place called Chavadi where Baba used to sleep. These 3 are located close to each other. 

Sai Baba Temple - Located at the heart of the town, this houses the samadhi (burial site) of Sai Baba. Entry is free. The waiting time in the queue averages over an hour on weekdays and 2 hours on weekends. The temple opens around 04:00 and stays open till about 22:00. At the samadhi site, one gets to spend a couple of minutes only as everyone needs to be accommodated to get a glimpse of the samadhi.
After the Samadhi Darshan, one can visit the Gurusthan, the tree where Sai Baba was first spotted meditating by the people of Shirdi. After that, one can go to the Udhi counter to collect the Udhi. The temple premises also has the samadhis of some of Sai Baba's most prominent devotees. 
It also has a book store where one can buy Sai Baba's books (Shri Sai Samartha Satcharitra, Aarti books, etc.) One can also get clothes and Prasadam offered to Sai Baba. Mobile phones and cameras are prohibited within the temple premises.

Dwarakamayi - Located adjacent to the temple complex, Dwarakamayi is the name of the mosque where Baba resided for an unbroken span of 60 years till his Samadhi in 1918. The structure has been renovated and houses the Dhuni the fire that Baba always kept burning. The flames are never allowed to die and the Dhuni today is the same that Baba lit over 100 years ago. Additionally, some of Baba's articles such as his grinding stone, fireplace, a stone on which he used to sit are located in the Dwarakamayi
Chavadi - This is located next to Dwarakamayi. Every alternate day, Baba used to sleep in the Chavadi, a few meters away from the Dwarakamayi. Even today, on Thursday nights, Baba's footprints are taken in a ceremonial procession from Dwarakamayi to Chavadi.
Khandoba Raya temple - This is the temple where Mahalsapati first welcomed Sai Baba and recognized that He is no ordinary saint. This is on the highway, approximately 7 minutes walk away from the temple.
Do[edit]
Apart from visiting the temple and other places connected to Sai Baba, there is precious little to do in Shirdi. There is a water park nearby the temple where one can enjoy water sports.

19.76869374.4683021 Saiteerth, Post Nighoj, Taluka Rahata, Ahmednagar (near Sun-N-Sand Hotel), ☏ +91 86 03700700, sales@saiteerth.com. 9AM-6PM. Immersive theme park dedicated secular saint Saibaba. Attractions depict the holy lands of India and pilgrimage sites like Badrinath, Dwarka, Siddhivinayak, Jagganath Puri. Sai Baba and his life appear on a giant screen.There's a blessing experience, created using animatronics and robotics. ₹350. (updated Jul 2018)
Buy[edit]
There are a large number of shops that sell trinkets and souvenirs - statues, magnets, stickers, books, photos of Sai Baba. Prices are generally negotiable.

Eat[edit]
Restaurants are liberally dotted over Shirdi. A variety of cuisines including Gujarati, Maharashtrian, South Indian, Continental are available. Most restaurants serve only vegetarian fare.
Also you get fresh fruits Guava & Pomegranate.
The world's largest solar cooker cooks food for thousands of devotees everyday and one can eat this food for a nominal price of ₹10 per meal.

Drink[edit]
Cold drinks and bottled water are available in many local stores. Fresh coconut water is also available. However, liquor is available in the town.

Sleep[edit]
There is no dearth of accommodation in Shirdi. Hotels of all categories abound. It is advisable to check the facilities in the room before booking and paying. In peak season, it is advisable to have prior reservations, which can be made either over phone or through travel websites.
Some of the good hotels in Shirdi to stay are -

Sun n Sand
Sai Leela
Shraddha Inn
 Dwarawati Bhaktha Nivas (Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust), Near Sai Sanasthan, ☏ +91 2423-258500. Check-in: 11AM, check-out: 11AM. Accommodation can be booked online. Darshan or Aarti can also be booked in advance at this site for ₹100 and ₹300 per person respectively. ₹500 to ₹900. 
 Hotel Sai Sahavas (Sai Sahavas), Opp. Mahalaxmi Temple Lane, Off Pimplewadi Road (2 Mins from the temple), ☏ +91  2423 256366. A good hotel with a meditating room on the third floor. 
Sujal Heritage located opposite Sun n Sand is a good budget hotel with Non AC and AC rooms
Stay safe[edit]
Shirdi is one of the safest towns.
Violent crime is not at all common in Shirdi but locals informed that there is a big gang of pickpockets who also steal money and valuables from handbags of ladies during darshan in the temple. Take "Beware of  pickpockets" seriously, be in group guarding each other.
Beware of touts who will offer to help you find accommodation and take you on temple tours. While they do not charge for their service, they will expect you to purchase items from their stores as quid pro quo at inflated prices.
Shirdi can be quite dusty, so those with allergies should carry along a dust mask.
Bottled water is recommended over tap water for drinking purposes.
Connect[edit]
100 - Police

Go next[edit]
Trimbak, one of the twelve Jyotirlingas of India, is 150 km from Shirdi and it is worth a visitable place.
Shani Shingnapur, the most famous temple of Shani Bhagavan in India, is 75 km from Shirdi. Taxi costs around ₹1200 and shared vans cost around ₹80-100 for a return trip.





This city travel guide to Shirdi is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Shirdi&oldid=4685911"