
Silverdale is on the Kitsap Peninsula in Western Washington.


Understand[edit]
Dyes Inlet near Silverdale
Home to the Kitsap Mall and many big box stores, Silverdale is where locals go for shopping.  Centrally located near, Bremerton, Poulsbo and Port Orchard, Silverdale is a convenient place to visit.  On the shores of Dyes Inlet Silverdale is also accessible by the water and offers many great views of the area.

History[edit]
Native American Salish people lived comfortably in the Puget Sound area navigating the local waterways in well made cedar canoes for thousands of years and developed a complex ritualistic society before 1792 when Captain George Vancouver 'discovered' the area, named it after one of his officers and declared the area for Great Britain.
Once the Washington Territory was established in 1853, the U.S. government began signing treaties with area tribes to acquire their lands. The Suquamish people ceded most of their land around the Kitsap Peninsula to the United States and logging came into the area in full force. The areas once impassible thick forests gave way to farms, towns and industry as lumber was shipped off to areas such as San Francisco or burned as fuel for the growing fleet of boats known as the Mosquito Fleet.
It was loggers who settled in Silverdale in 1854.  They expanded their operations into the valleys of Kitsap County, building roads as they went.  By the 1880s, Scandinavian immigrants were moving into the area seeking work.  As the timber production took the prime trees and opened up large areas, attention turned to farming.
Farming conditions were excellent and the family farms thrived.  The Farmer's Cooperative was formed in 1887.  Dairy, chicken and hog farms abounded even through the middle 20th century.
The town was named in 1878.  Settler William Littlewood wanted to name the town Goldendale, but it turned out that another town bore that name. Instead of trying to find an entirely new name, he changed the "gold" to "silver" and named it Silverdale.
In the mid 1880s steamer boats began making regular trips to Seattle from the Kitsap area and by 1900 the sloop "Telka" departed Silverdale for Seattle once a week.  While the Silverdale Dock was the center of entertainment and commercial trade well into the 1900s, the community remained a fairly quiet, family-oriented town.  Remnants of its beginnings as an agricultural and timber center can be found at places such as the Old Mill Site on Bucklin Hill Rd.
The announcement by the Navy that it would develop its West Coast Trident Submarine Base at Bangor, caused a rush of change in the community as more people moved in to the area and businesses moved into the region to support the growing population.
Several attempts towards city-hood have been defeated, leaving the community an unincorporated part of the county overseen by a Commissioner, elected to a Board of three serving from the county seat in Port Orchard.
Silverdale managed to enter the 21st century with some undeveloped land -- pastures, roaming deer and old-time barns. You can also still find a solitary, tree-lined avenue or a quiet park. In fact, relaxing spots can be found in the Silverdale waterfront park, on the Clear Creek Trail and Island Lake County park.

Get in[edit]
Map of Silverdale (Washington)


By car[edit]
If you are coming from East Bremerton, then take WA-303 north, and when you cross over the Brownsville Hwy intersection, you will enter a short expressway (with exits like Central Valley Blvd, Ridgetop Blvd, etc), and at the end of the expressway is WA-3 interchange. You can also take WA-3 if you are from Poulsbo. An alternative way is that you can go on Viking Way, and go straight on Silverdale Way, and you will enter. If you are from Seabeck, go on Seabeck Hwy and turn left on NW Anderson Hill Road or Newberry Hill road, and if you take the Anderson Hill Road cross over Old Frontier Rd/Provost Rd intersection and go straight on the roundabout after going under WA-3; if you chose Newberry Hill Road, go straight and it will change on Silverdale Way NW once you pass Chico Way NW. You can take Tracyton Blvd or Bucklin Hill Road to get there, too.

By ferry[edit]
 Washington State Ferries, ☏ +1 206-464-6400. Connects downtown Seattle to Bainbridge Island, Bremerton, and Vashon Island, and connects West Seattle to Vashon Island and Southworth, (Kitsap Peninsula).  All ferries are for both vehicles and passenger except the ferry between downtown Seattle and Vashon Island and connections to buses can be made at all ferry terminals for walk on passengers.  The Bremmerton terminal provides the best access to Silverdale however be warned that lines can get long during the summers and holidays.  Try to avoid peak times such as commuting peak hours heading towards Seattle in the mornings and leaving Seattle in the late afternoons.  Friday late afternoon and Sunday late afternoon should also be avoided if possible or at least plan on arriving early to avoid congestion. prices change depending on season, number of passengers and destination, check website for latest pricing, regional ORCA cards do not work for drive on passengers. 
By boat[edit]
 Port of Silverdale, 3550 NW Byron St, ☏ +1 360 698-4819. The port offers dockside moorage for about 60 boats, depending on length. Since 1920, the Port of Silverdale dock has maintained a facility for Mariners. Transient moorage with power, fresh water, vehicle/trailer parking  and deep water boat launch. Nearby facilities include restaurants, pubs, shops and restrooms. (updated Jul 2019)
By bus[edit]
 Kitsap Transit, ☏ +1 360 479-6962, toll-free: +1-800-501-7433, kitsapride@kitsaptransit.com. Kitsap Transit offers transit services throughout the area including pickup from all ferry terminals and connects with Mason Transit (Mason County), Pierce Transit (Pierce County), and Jefferson Transit (Jefferson County) offering connections outside of the area. Full fare is $2 and is part of the regional ORCA network system. (updated Jul 2019)
By plane[edit]
The nearest airport is Bremerton National Airport. However, it's only for general aviation. The nearest airport for passengers is SeaTac Airport, which is a 1-hour drive via WA-16 off I-5.

By airport shuttle[edit]
 Bremerton-Kitsap Airporter, ☏ +1 360-876-1737. Provides scheduled ground transportation to and from the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport to various locations on the Kitsap Peninsula. (updated Jul 2019)
Get around[edit]
47°39′28″N 122°41′21″WMap of Silverdale (Washington)
Getting around is easy. The most places are on Ridgetop Blvd and Silverdale Way. You can also shop at Kitsap Mall, the only mall that is in Kitsap County.

By taxi[edit]
 A-Ward Taxi Towncar, Port Orchard based, ☏ +1 360-440-1517. 
 Bainbridge Island Taxi, Bainbridge Island based, ☏ +1 206 842-1021. Locally owned and operated, serving Bainbridge, Poulsbo, Kingston. Silverdale, Bremerton and the Olympic Peninsula 
 Best Darn Taxi, Bremerton based, ☏ +1 360-782-2378. It serves Kitsap County. (updated Aug 2017)
 Bumblebee Taxi, Silverdale based, ☏ +1 360 782-1966. A full service taxi company serving Kitsap County and all military bases. It offers flat rates and military discounts. 
 First Choice Taxi, Bremerton based, ☏ +1 360 373-7903. It serves Bremerton, Kitsap County and Seatac Airport. Bremerton Ferry pickups can be prearranged. 
 KnM Transport, Bremerton based, ☏ +1 360 479-2273. Transporting mobility challenged clients in specially equipped vans. 
 Pleades Transportation, Bainbridge Island based, ☏ +1 206 618-9630. 9AM – 11:30PM. A limousine service on Bainbridge Island. 
 Redtop Taxi of Kitsap, Port Orchard based, ☏ +1 360 876-4949. 24 hr. 
 Taxi and Tours, ☏ +1 206-842-7660 (Bainbridge Island), +1 360-698-7660 (Kingston-Silverdale-Poulsbo), +1 360-377-9393 (Bremerton), +1 360-876-9393 (Port Orchard). 24 hour serving Bainbridge Island, Kingston, Silverdale, Poulsbo, Bremerton, Suquamish, and Port Orchard. 
By charter bus[edit]
 Janssen's Charter & Tours, 1623 Woods Rd E, Port Orchard, ☏ +1 360-871-2446. 
See[edit]
Whaling Days - The most famous event, which happens on the fourth Friday, Saturday, and Sunday of July. It features food and craft booths, carnival games and concerts.

Do[edit]
Birdwatching[edit]
The Kitsap Audubon Society has been actively meeting since 1972 and has a broad coalition of birders actively tracking and sharing sightings since then. They also maintain an active website with updates of the latest sightings, suggestions on areas for birders and even a regular newsletter. They also developed a checklist of birds likely to be seen in the area.
The state Audubon society developed 'The Great Audubon Birding Trail' which includes key migration flyways. Flyways are major north-south routes of travel for migratory birds and likely areas to see birds along the route extending from Alaska to Patagonia. The Old Mill Park in Silverdale is one of only a handful of areas in the region named to the list.
Chuck E' Cheese's - next to the Silverdale Way/Myhre Road intersection, Chuck E' Cheese's is a basic sit-down pizza restaurant with a lot of arcade games.

Buy[edit]
 Kitsap Mall, 10315 Silverdale Way NW (South of Hwy 3 at the Kitsap mall Blvd exit), ☏ +1 360 698-2555. Hosts Kohl's, Macy's, JCPenney, Dick's Sporting Goods, and Sears department stores plus over 100 other mall shops and restaurants, along with several surrounding plazas. (updated Jul 2019)
 [dead link] Silverdale Farmers Market (Old Town Silverdale Between the Boat Launch & Waterfront Park). Tuesdays 11AM-4PM April-Sept. market for locally grown agricultural products which provides a wide variety of fresh healthy produce and plants for all citizens. (updated Jul 2019)
Eat[edit]
 [dead link] Aladdin's Palace, 9399 Ridgetop Blvd. NW, ☏ +1 360 698-6599. A family-owned Lebanese restaurant. 
 Bahn Thai, Near Bucklin Hill Road/Mickelberry Road intersection (if on Myhre Road, go on Mickelberry Road, and when you see Cold Stone Creamery, turn right before the next turn that goes to Cold Stone Creamery, or on Bucklin Hill Road, go on Mickelberry road and pass Cold Stone Creamery and turn left after passing). 
 Gandhi, Near Mickelberry Road/Bucklin Hill Road intersection (do the same as you do on Bahn Thai, but this time, turn left after turning left on Mickelberry Road from Bucklin Hill Road, and you will see Gandhi on your right). 
 Golden Grill Mongolian BBQ, 9469 Silverdale Way NW, ☏ +1 360-692-5504. Decent Chinese and Mongolian food. Excellent prices for what you get. The Family Dinner is highly recommend if you are in a group. $8 to $20. 
Drink[edit]
 Silver City Restaurant & Brewery, Near Myhre Road/Silverdale Way intersection (when you see the Food Next Right sign on WA-3, take the Newberry Hill Road exit, and then, go right on Newberry Hill Road (after passing Chico Way, will change into Silverdale Way NW and go straight, and turn left on Myhre Road (traffic light intersection), and pass the KFC restaurant after turning left, and then turn the left after passing KFC, there shall be a parking lot for Silver City). Offers a kids' menu. 
Sleep[edit]
 Oxford Inn, Near Silverdale Way & Bucklin Hill Road intersection (when on Route 3, and when you see the Lodging Next Right sign, take Newberry Hill Road exit, and go on Newberry Hill Road east, and then, go straight on Silverdale Way NW, and cross over NW Bryon St intersection, and, cross over Bucklin Hill Road and turn right after that. You shall now be at Oxford Inn). 
 Oxford Suites, Near Bucklin Hill Road and Silverdale Way Intersection (do the same as Oxford Inn but this time, before you reach the traffic light for Bucklin Hill Road, turn right before you reach it, and you shall see the Oxford Suites). 
 Silverdale Beach Hotel, In between the traffic light of Clear Creek Road and Silverdale Way (do the same thing as Oxford Inn & Oxford Suites, but as that time, turn right at Bucklin Hill Road and pass Bayshore Road, and, you shall see the hotel easily). 
Go next[edit]
You can go to Shelton or Port Angeles, or even Port Gamble (looks like it has been in the 1940s!) And sometimes, try to go to Grand Mound as your next stop to the famous Great Wolf Lodge (a fun hotel).



Routes through Silverdale




Port Gamble ← Poulsbo ←

 N  S 

→ Chico → Bremerton








This city travel guide to Silverdale is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Silverdale_(Washington)&oldid=4682647"