
Skanderborg is a city in East Jutland. It has a population of about 25,000 and is a generic, quiet Danish provincial town. With a quiet life of its own, it is strongly linked to the regional capital, Aarhus, which is only a 20 minute commute away.
Although not as beautiful or well known as nearby Silkeborg, Skanderborg can make for some picturesque and relaxing days enjoying nature.
It makes a great stop on a tour of the region, or as a base for a few days.


Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
Skanderborg is on the main rail network and accessible from the rest of the country. Trains run around 3-4 times per hour to Aarhus, same goes to the South towards Horsens, eventually Germany or Copenhagen.

By bus[edit]
Aarhus is reached by line 200. Horsens to the south served by line 107. These lines run frequently.
Several regional bus lines are connecting the smaller towns in the surroundings, with less frequency.

By car[edit]
Skanderborg is located on the E45 Highway.

Get around[edit]
56°2′0″N 9°56′0″EMap of Skanderborg
The town center is small and can easily be navigated on foot or bike.
There is one public bus route going down the min street, as well as tying the north-east and south-west parts of the town together.
Taxis are at stand by the train station.

See[edit]
Skanderup church
"Kulturhuset" (The Culture House)
Skanderborg main street
Picturesquely situated, Skanderborg especially makes for some pleasant walks in beautiful surroundings of both the lake and the forest (Dyrehaven).
There is a tourist office located in the Culture house right in the city center. They can help with maps, brochures and information about the city and whole area.

 Skanderborg Museum. Hosting a range of different museums, the website gives a good overview of all the activities. On the main street, in a quaint little house, is the city museum. It gives opportunity to learn about the local history, development of the city, arts and so forth. 
 Bunkers. In the forest just nearby the youth hostel, some old bunkers are situated. During the German occupation in WWII they served as the Danish head quarters of the Luftwaffe, and later a small detention camp, and is now a delightful little museum, displaying many interesting artifacts and foundings from the war and the local area in particular. 
56.05239.74941 Øm Abbey. Munkevej 8, 8680 Ry. In a very picturesque location outside the city this old abbey, mostly consisting of relics and ruins, now hosts a museum. Makes for a great stop on a bike trip.   
56.02729.932562 Skanderborg Castle (south part of Adelgade). Being the old castle, the grounds now hosts only a church and cemetery that is still worth a visit.  (updated Jul 2019)
55.9770339.830653 Ejer Bavnehøj.   
55.977469.826334 Møllehøj. The spot of the highest altitude of the country (a mesmerizing 170m!), the lowest-highest spot in the Europe.   
Do[edit]
Renting canoes Canoes can be rented at the youth hostel, which is a great way of exploring the lake, including a range of small islands to set anchor on.
 "Lake cruise" with the boat Dagmar. Starting off by the small pier by the culture house, Dagmar does smaller tours around the lake during summer. With some Danish commentary and opportunity to buy drinks on board. Mostly popular with the pensioners and odd families though. 
Movies. The culture centre "Kulturhuset" has a small movie theatre, showing 1-2 movies a day. Nothing extraordinary, but the theatre is modern and well-equipped with good technology.
 Water skiing. Just North of the city, in smaller town Stilling, there is a water ski club where you can do try-outs and watch competitions if they are on. 
 Skanderborg Golf Club, Hylke Møllevej 2. 
 Watch a handball match. Especially during winter times handball is a much beloved sport in all of Denmark, and Skanderborg has a men's team playing in the best league. It's quite well supported, and still it's easy and fairly cheap to go watch a game. "Home ground" is at the Morten Børup Skolen. 
Events[edit]
 Danmarks Smukkeste Festival (SmukFest). Once a year the town comes to life as it hosts the second largest music festival of Denmark, "Danmarks Smukkeste Festival" or simply "SmukFest". Always taking place the second weekend of August, it hosts around 50,000 guests and a line-up consisting of mostly strong, national names but well-known international acts as well. The festival has 4 full days of music, several camps sites as well as plenty of different activities surrounding the grounds. The atmosphere is light and the festival is well known for its open-minded and positive nature with only very few incidents being reported. A full ticket will set you back 2000 DKK, but there are plenty of opportunities to enjoy the shenanigans for free. The town really is different during that week of the year, the presence of the festival being felt all over. 
Buy[edit]
Most shops are located along the main street. 
Shopping center Bloms from 2012 is also found at the main street.

Eat[edit]
 Kafe K. At Kulturhuset, Parkvej 10, tel:86524399. Tapas, soups, sandwich, etc. at Kulturhuset with a great view over the lake. 
Drink[edit]
Marius Øltapper. On the main street, Adelgade. Local waterhole that everybody knows. In the basement of a significant old building, this place can be pretty dead during weekdays, but still manages to fill up more than it's suitable for during weekends.
Walther's Musikcafé.On the main street, Adelgade. Named after the mascot of the annual music festival of the town, this place hosts gigs of local and national bands in an informal setting.
Sleep[edit]
Budget

 Danhostel. The Youth hostel by the lake rather distant from the town and station. 
 Skanderborg Sø CAmping. 
Mid-range

 Skanderborghus. Hotel of the town, situated by the very end of the main street, in opposite part of town from the train station. Located nicely by the lake and forest. Also has a mid-range restaurant. 
 Sophiendal Manor. A 15 min drive towards Silkeborg, this proves as a nice get-away. Good dining as well. 
Skanderborg Park Hotel. Is placed close to the train station and yet hidden away in beautiful nature. Close by is the sea and other restaurants. The hotel is also used for conferences and meetings.
Go next[edit]
Aarhus
Ry
Silkeborg
Horsens


Routes through Skanderborg




Aalborg ← Aarhus ←

 N  S 

→ Horsens → Hamburg









This city travel guide to Skanderborg is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Skanderborg&oldid=4762973"