

St Nicholas Church, an ancient parish church in Stevenage
Stevenage is a town of approximately 88,000 (2019) in the county of Hertfordshire, in the south east of England, around 32 miles (51 km) north of central London. The town is well known for being the first ever 'new town'; new towns were a series of towns built near London after World War II. Stevenage as a whole is not as a major tourist attraction, but there are some attractions that may attract local visitors. An interesting fact about the town is that a view of Stevenage from the air, shows it as a heart shape.


Understand[edit]
Stevenage Town Centre
Stevenage is a must for architecture and planning historians, sociologists and socialists to visit, it represents, perhaps, the most successful of the great Post-War experiments with new housing. It was a huge project to relocate those who were displaced by the war in clean, open, and healthy new towns. Its often unattractive architecture is mostly that of the 1960s and 1970s; in this it is perhaps unfortunate, but it was also conceived with a strong vision in mind.
It is easy to write Stevenage off as another soulless new town, and to make stereotypical remarks about it as a place to live, as countless unthinking and lazy commentators have done. But this is to miss what the town offers. Stevenage is like any other UK town, it has its problems and these should not be dismissed, but it also benefits from a good transport infrastructure, wide open spaces, plenty of sporting facilities, a theatre of some reputation and lovely countryside both around it, and within it.
There are many reasons why you might want to come to Stevenage to live. Swimming pools, relatively low house prices, but a quick commute to London (25 minutes by fast train), as well as tennis courts and wide open parks. All of these do attract people from the surrounding area to Stevenage. A particularly attractive feature is the network of separated bicycle paths that cross the whole area, enabling one to cycle practically anywhere in the town, without having to negotiate traffic. Stevenage has the first pedestrianised shopping precinct in the UK, which on the whole remains vibrant and successful, unlike those in many other new towns. Sadly, as with some other UK cities, this is a different place at night - its bleak, sodium-lit environment is not conducive to a thriving night time economy, which is mainly conducted in the Leisure Park by the train station, and the old town. Overall, local citizens are supportive of their town and football team (Stevenage FC), one of the most well supported football league teams in the UK.

History[edit]
People have lived in the environs of Stevenage since the Roman times, and a hoard of Roman coins was found in the mid-1980s when Chells Manor was built. One of the most 'famous' landmarks in Stevenage is the 'six hills', which were burial mounds for a wealthy Roman family. Later on, Saxons settled nearby to what is now the Great North Road, subsequently bypassed by the A1(M) motorway. The Saxons gave their new village the name 'Stigenace' or 'Stithenac', which means 'at the strong oak'. Over the following centuries, various hamlets and farmsteads sprung up around the village of Stevenage, the largest ones being Shephall and Broadwater. Stevenage was probably affected by the Danish invasions in the late 9th century as several places very close by have the name Dane End, which usually marks the edge of 'Dane-law'.
Stevenage became more stable during the 11th century, and the Domesday Book records the existence of Stevenage, and many nearby hamlets such as Chells, Shephall, Woolenwick, Whomerley, and Broadwater. Things progressed slowly and steadily for the following centuries, when Stevenage grew from a village to a very small and attractive market town centred around the High Street. Stevenage was frequently visited by people travelling on the Great North Road (that used to run through Stevenage), including Samuel Pepys.
In the mid 19th century the population grew to 2,100 as a result of the new railway station built in the town. During the 19th century Charles Dickens and Edward Bulwer Lytton founded the Guild of Literature and Arts on London Road, Stevenage. E.M. Forster also lived at Rooks Nest near St Nicholas Church.
The most dramatic change came in the 1946 when Stevenage became the location for the "First New-Town". There were some disgruntled inhabitants of the Old Town who believed Stevenage was only their town, and that they were being swamped by the newcomers from London and Essex. In the next twenty years the population rocketed from roughly 7,000 to around 60,000.
Since then a number of other large housing developments have been built, the biggest being Chells Manor, Poplars, St Nicholas, and Great Ashby.

Get in[edit]
By car[edit]
The A1(M) motorway is the most common road used to get into the town and it runs along the western border of the town, although planned future development of Stevenage may breach this barrier and continue on the other side. The A1(M) stretches 409 mi (658 km) from London to Edinburgh, and roughly follows the path of the famous and historic Great North Road. The other major road connecting Stevenage to the surrounding area is the A602 which connects the town to the A10 and Ware to the Southeast, and Hitchin to the Northwest.

By train[edit]
51.902-0.2071 Stevenage train station. The railway station is on Lytton Way in the town centre of Stevenage. The line served is the King's Cross East Coast Main Line, run by LNER, which is a major railway line in the UK. Major stops include: London King's Cross, Cambridge, Peterborough, Doncaster, York, Newcastle, and Edinburgh, as well as London Bridge, East Croydon, Gatwick Airport, Horsham and Brighton. The station is served by LNER, First Hull Trains, Thameslink and Great Northern railway companies.   (updated Aug 2020)
By plane[edit]
The nearest airports are London Luton Airport (LTN IATA)  (about 10 miles west of Stevenage, easily accessible by the A505 via Hitchin, or buses 101 and 777), and London Stansted Airport (STN IATA) (about 30 miles to the east of Stevenage, accessible by coach 777).

By coach[edit]
National Express Coach 777 from Luton, Birmingham and Stansted Airports stop in Stevenage. Public buses also run frequently from nearby towns and villages (such as Hitchin, Luton, Welwyn Garden City, Hatfield, Hemel Hempstead, Hertford, Ware and Letchworth), to the Stevenage Bus Station in the centre of the town and to Lister Hospital, in the Corey's Mill district of Stevenage.

Get around[edit]
51°54′40″N 0°12′0″WMap of Stevenage
You can easily get around Stevenage by car, bus, foot or bike.

By car[edit]
If you choose a car to travel around Stevenage, consult a good street map first, although the routes are straightforward if you are heading in to the centre of the town for shopping. One thing to watch for in Stevenage is its roundabouts, something the town is very famous for because there are far more of them than in most towns, and they are decorated with flowers most of the year. There are many reasonably priced car parks, but the main ones are the 13 council-managed car parks in the centre of town. These are: Westgate Multi-Storey (attached to an indoor shopping centre), St George's Way Multi-Storey, Marshgate, Southgate, Fairlands Way, Swingate, Daneshill, Railway North, Railway South, Danesgate, Swingate East and the Leisure Centre. In the Old Town, the best bet is the short stay car park behind Waitrose. Elsewhere, Roaring Meg Car Park or Monkswood Retail Park.

By bus[edit]
If you wish to travel by bus there is an abundance of bus stops, at least one on all main streets and one on some more minor streets. Stevenage is served by numerous bus companies such as: Arriva, Centrebus, Richmond's, and Uno. Timetables are available at the County Council's Intalink website Intalink. Stevenage Bus Station is on 51.90178-0.202822 The Quadrant, off Danestrete, in the town centre, adjacent to the Town Square.
The price of bus tickets vary (depending on the distance you are travelling), but you usually pay around £2.30 for a single ticket, £3.50 for a return, or £4 for a day ticket. If you are 11–19, disabled, or a pensioner then you can apply for a pass from Hertfordshire County Council, that will allow for discounted or free bus and train travel.

By bike[edit]
Cycling is made very easy around Stevenage by the excellent Cycle Path Network. As well as lots of cycle paths there are footpaths everywhere and many pedestrianised streets.

See[edit]
Stevenage old town High Street
51.9251-0.1917781 Rooks Nest House. Weston Road, Stevenage & Forster Country. Forster Country is a relatively small area of countryside around Rooks Nest House, and it is the last remaining bit of green belt land in Stevenage Borough. Rooks Nest was the inspiration for the famous writer E.M. Forster's famous novel Howard's End. Forster lived at Rooks Nest during his childhood years, in the late 19th century. The farmhouse is a beautiful old building on a quiet lane situated on the edge of the Old Town of Stevenage. Forster Country starts at a modern sculpture inscribed 'Only Connect' (this can be reached via a path in the St Nicholas Church churchyard) and includes the fields near that (it has no clear border). Rooks Nest House is a private residence and not open to the public.   
High Street and the Old Town Before the arrival of the new town Stevenage was a small town centred around the old High Street. On the High Street there are several listed buildings, some very old pubs, restaurant and upmarket one-off shops. There are other streets with many old buildings off and near the High Street, such as the Bowling Green.
51.9014-0.19862 Stevenage Museum, St George's Way, ☏ +44 1438 218881. W-F 10AM-4:30PM Sa 10AM-5PM, closed on bank holidays. Facilities: disabled toilet with baby changing, small coffee areas and gift shop. This small but fascinating museum is a real gem in Stevenage and acts as one of the few links between Stevenage's past and present. It tells the story of Stevenage before it was a new town, which is a time most know very little about and after it became a new town. It also has an archive of old photographs, documents etc. related to the town. The museum is very child friendly with regularly changing, fun exhibitions and lots of events. Admission is free but a small donation is often expected but not essential. (updated Apr 2016)
51.92057-0.197243 St Nicholas Church, Rectory Lane.. St Nicholas Church is the ancient parish church of Stevenage. The present Norman church replaced a much simpler Saxon church in 1100 AD and like many Hertfordshire churches it is built predominantly of flint. The current Anglican parish of St Nicholas stretches across the north of the town, but there are eight other Anglish parishes in Stevenage, but only the one civil parish. Free but optional small donation. 
51.891-0.1752424 [dead link] St Mary's Church, Shephall Green, Hydean Way.. Often locked due to theft and vandalism, sometimes open. St Mary's is the ancient parish church of Shephall, which was once a hamlet separate from Stevenage, until it was swamped by the large Shephall housing estate. But Shephall Green still remains a little enclave with a 'villagey feel'. The church is at least nine hundred years old and has many interesting features such as the rare Saxon stone relic inscribed with indecipherable runic letters. The church and its churchyard are beautiful. Free but optional small donation..  
51.9117-0.15995 The Manor House, Chells Lane (Chells Lane is off the White Way where buses run to every few minutes). Manor House not open to public but the Lane is open all year all day. The Manor House is on a quiet lane which is an enclave of the Chells Manor housing estate. The secluded lane has a lovely duck pond, several nice houses, a few old cottages and the manor house itself. Chells Lane is a reminder that not that long ago Chells Manor was only a tiny hamlet in the middle of the countryside, not a housing estate that is home to 5-10,000 people. If you are visiting Chells Lane, Box Wood (about a 15-minute walk away) is also worth a look. The Manor House is a private residence, as are all the other houses. Free. 
51.9218-0.163386 Box Wood. Gresley Way. Daily, year round. Box Wood is a beautiful 27-acre wood which has a spectacular show of bluebells in springtime, lots of wildflowers and an array of wildlife (such as muntjac deer, rabbits, jays and woodpeckers- even some very rare waxwings were sighted last winter). There are several benches in the wood (although some have suffered vandalism), a gravelled path (as well as many other paths) and a few parking spaces dotted around its edge. There are some guided walks and tours of the wood throughout the year, organised by the Herts and Middlesex Wildlife Trust. Box Wood is also called Pryors Wood, but Box Wood is historically its proper name. For the link, click on Nature Reserves and then 'Pryor's Wood' (which is under 'North Herts'). Free.   
51.9118-0.2087 Old Town Stevenage. Plaque commemorating Henry Trigg, 18c. farmer who died in 1724 and whose coffin was fixed to a beam. Henry Trigg had his coffin placed in the rafters of 37 High St to avoid body snatchers. After his death in 1724 his brother, The Rev Thomas Trigg, put aside any scruples that he may have had and agreed to fulfil Henry's request. The remains were duly sealed in a coffin and placed in full view in the appointed location. In 1774 the house became the Old Castle Inn. In 1831, a new landlord Mr Bellamy, took over. His first task was to inspect the coffin. Henry, he confirmed, was still inside. A further check was made in 1906 when members of the East Hertfordshire Archaeological Society were allowed access to it. Their report shows that the coffin contained about two thirds of a human skeleton. However, during the first world war soldiers were stationed in the area. Several were reported to have plundered the coffin taking home bones as souvenirs. It was also reported that some soldiers sold on some bones to the local populous as trinkets. It would appear therefore that, despite all his precautions, poor old Henry finally fell foul of his dreaded bodysnatchers. The coffin still remains in situ in the rafters of a building at 37 High Street, Old Stevenage. There is a plaque recording the event on the building. 
51.8977-0.1893278 Whomerley Wood. The remains of a medieval moated homestead in Whomerley Wood is an 80-square-yard trench almost 5 feet wide in parts. It was probably the home of Ralph de Homle, and both Roman and later pottery has been found there.  
51.8728-0.21489 Knebworth House, Knebworth, nr Stevenage (a couple of miles south of the town centre, just out of town by the A1(M)), ☏ +44 1438 812661, info@knebworthhouse.com. Open July & August: Grounds open 11AM-5:30PM, House open midday-5PM.. This house is one of the greatest stately homes in Britain, and the site has been home to the Lytton family since 1490. Charles Dickens used to stay here often. Former owner Edward Bulwer Lytton wrote many historical novels including The Last Days of Pompeii. Many films have used its fantastic exteriors and Tudor great hall. Nowadays the estate comprises the gothic mansion, gardens, deer park, church, mausoleum and playground & railway (Fort Knebworth). It is very popular with local families. The house is also famous for hosting a huge Robbie Williams concert a few years ago. Other major acts that have performed at Knebworth House park over the years include: the Rolling Stones, Oasis, Manic Street Preachers, Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd and the Chemical Brothers. Adults £13.00, £9.50 excluding house..   (updated Sep 2018)
Do[edit]
Sailing Lake at Fairlands Valley Park
 Stevenage Arts & Leisure Centre. Lytton Way. The Leisure Centre is part of Stevenage Leisure Ltd. It has a 501-seat theatre (Gordon Craig Theatre), a concert hall, sports facilities, an art gallery (Boxfield Gallery), a restaurant, café and Youth Theatre, fitness centre and conference suites. 
Walking There are many good walks to be had in and around Stevenage. One of the most notable is The Avenue walk. This walk takes you from the High Street, north to the tree lined Avenue and along the avenue to St Nicholas Church and then on to Rooks Nest, the undulating Forster Country countryside and the forgotten hamlet of Chesfield (which has the ruins of the ancient church of St Aethelreda). Around Stevenage, you can easily walk to some pretty and picturesque villages, such as Weston, Graveley, Walkern, Aston, Datchworth and Benington by way of public footpaths.
Stevenage Leisure Park, Six Hills Way. The leisure park has lots of attractions. Firstly, there's the large 16-screen multiplex Cineworld Stevenage cinema (Booking Line: 0871 220 8000). Then there's the bowling alley (Hollywood Bowl), a range of night clubs and eating places.
51.8728-0.21481 Events at Knebworth House, near Stevenage. Where Oasis performed their historic, era-defining 1996 gig, Knebworth House continues to run a series of events throughout the year - including concerts, gardening events, motor shows and Christmas markets.   (updated Jun 2023)
Sports[edit]
Football: Stevenage FC[dead link] were promoted in 2023 and now play soccer in League One, the third tier. Their home stadium is Broadhall Way aka Lamex Stadium, capacity 7800, at the south end of town centre.
For rugby, try Stevenage Rugby Club, Graveley Road.
Next to the Rugby Club is Lister Tennis Club[dead link]. To avoid paying the expensive tennis club court rates, you can play at several free courts dotted around the town, which you really need to keep your eyes peeled out for (some tennis players have lived in the town for years and didn't know there were any free courts).
For watersports the best place is Fairlands Valley Park.
Golf can be played at the municipal golf course on Aston Lane, in the very southern end of the town.
Other sports are also catered for at the Leisure Centre and some other venues. During the holidays, some schools rent out their good sports facilities, such as the John Henry Newman School.
Parks[edit]
 Fairlands Valley Park, Six Hills Way,, ☏ +44 1438 353241. Fairlands Valley Park (fondly referred to as 'Fairlands Valley', 'Fairlands', 'The Lakes' or simply 'the Park' by locals) is a lovely 120-acre park in the centre of Stevenage. As well as providing a beautiful place to walk and play, it has an 11-acre sailing lake. Fishing, sailing, rowing, canoeing, windsurfing and orienteering are the sports that are on offer. There are charges for each sport. Of course, you can play a game of football or frisbee in the park for free. There are also a couple of shallow paddling pools by the large play area. (updated Apr 2016)
 Great Ashby Country Park (off Serpentine Close, Great Ashby.). The fairly quiet and secluded Great Ashby Country Park really is a hidden gem. It has a large circular field area in the centre for games of football, cricket, kite flying, frisbee, picnics etc., an access only road, a small car park, two extensive play areas full of excellent play equipment and a mound on its eastern edge (this has beautiful views of the surrounding countryside and woodland). There are also several paths. And all this is set in lovely, undulating countryside, surrounded by trees and opposite Box Wood. (updated Apr 2016)
Buy[edit]
Most souvenirs on offer for tourists can be purchased from Stevenage Museum. They sell Stevenage postcards, key rings, and Stevenage history and guide books.
 The Westgate Indoor Shopping Centre. And the surrounding pedestrianised area has over 30 shops, such as Topshop, Next, River Island, New Look, Marks and Spencer, Dorothy Perkins. This pedestrianised area is Britain's first pedestrianised shopping area.There are also two coffee shops; the highly recommended Esquires Coffee House in the Westgate Indoor Shopping Centre and a brand new branch of Costa Coffee to serve the shoppers. If you wish to shop in this area the best car parks to use are Westgate Multi-Storey, St George's Way Multi-Storey or Southgate. 
Roaring Meg Retail Park (there is a large branch of Curry's, Homebase, Toys 'R' Us, and many other stores),
Monkswood Retail Park
High Street for more upmarket shops.
If you're looking for something niche, the quiet villages surrounding Stevenage such Knebworth, Woolmer Green and Aston feature many small specialist shops, including SuSu Style, Friend Of Danesdury, Sport Autograph and Fitness Footwear.
There are lots of supermarkets in Stevenage, the main ones being the two large Tesco's, the huge Asda, the two Sainsbury's, an Aldi, and the Old Town Waitrose. Most of the larger supermarkets have petrol stations, but there are many more petrol stations across the town.
There are many local corner shops-come-post offices in the numerous neighbourhood centres. The neighbourhood centres also have several other shops; such as a fast food outlets, mini supermarket, Balti house, off-license, hairdresser's, butcher's etc. There are ten large neighbourhood centres: Bedwell Crescent, Marymead, Oak's Cross, The Hyde, The Glebe, The Oval, Poplars, Canterbury Way, Great Ashby, Filey Close and Chells Manor. And other smaller neighbourhood centres in the following streets: Archer Road, Austen Paths, Burwell Road, Fairview Road, Hydean Way, Kenilworth Close, Lonsdale Road, Mobbsbury Way, Popple Way, Rockingham Way, Roebuck and Whitesmead Road.

Eat[edit]
Restaurants and other eateries in Stevenage range between average to good! The restaurants include Italian, Indian, Chinese and others. Alternatively, go to some of the fine country pubs nearby or venture a few miles north to the more old market town of Hitchin. Service in Stevenage restaurants is, again, generally average. There are lots of Indian restaurants and a few Chinese restaurants. Stevenage also has many fast food joints: several McDonald's, two Burger Kings, two Pizza Huts, various independent burger, kebab and fried chicken takeaway places as well as numerous fish & chip shops.

 Jade Palace, Middle Row, Old Town, ☏ +44 1438 350404. For Chinese cuisine. It's not a wonderful restaurant but the food is good and very reasonably priced. You can also order take-aways from it. 
 The Old Town Chinese Restaurant, 18-120 High St, ☏ +44 1438 313600. 
The Cromwell Hotel, (Old Town) has a good restaurant and serves attractive bar meals too. Interesting historic building, too!
 Taj Mahal Restaurant, 70 High St, ☏ +44 1438 313290. 
 Bombay Tandoori Restaurant, 79 High St, ☏ +44 1438 314699. 
 Mohan Tandoori, 116 High St, ☏ +44 1438 746305. 
 New Gate of India Restaurant, 20 The Glebe, ☏ +44 1438 317619. 
 Hyde Tandoori, 20 The Hyde, ☏ +44 1438 360520. 
 Rajput Indian Cuisine, 23a The Hyde, ☏ +44 1438 741653. 
There are many places to eat in the Leisure Park, most notable restaurants are the Ask Restaurant. Whilst the general food in the Leisure Park is not that good, Ask and a couple of others give average or better food at an affordable price, just do not expect Gordon Ramsey type standards.
Other places to eat for family meals are not highly recommended although children tend to enjoy them are

 The Coopers, Magpie Crescent (next to Poplars branch of Sainsbury's), ☏ +44 1438 316337. 
 Coreys Mill Beefeater, Coreys Mill Lane, Old Town, ☏ +44 1438 351318. 
Further afield there are excellent restaurants in local villages such as Datchworth (The Tilbury-Inn on the Green, and Coltsfoot Country Retreat), Tewin (Plume of Feathers), and Watton at Stone (George and Dragon).

 The Chequers (Vintage Inn pub), Bragbury End, ☏ +44 1438 817814. (updated May 2019)
Cafes[edit]
The town now has a couple of very good cafes, such as

 Esquires Coffee House, Unit 27, Westgate Centre, SG1 1QR (at the Westgate in the town centre), ☏ +44 1438 365100. The coffee here is highly recommended and rivals the likes of Caffe Nero and some London coffee houses. Esquires is a surprisingly excellent place for a snack or light lunch with coffee, and it's a place that Stevenage town centre had needed for a long time. (updated Jan 2019)
51.90376-0.1966121 Costa Coffee, 75 Queensway, SG1 1DN (in the town centre), ☏ +44 1438 722181. This is a branch of this good coffee house chain. (updated Jan 2019)
 Starbucks, 29 Town Square, SG1 1BP (in the town centre, next to the Bus Station), ☏ +44 1438 367867. (updated Jan 2019)
Drink[edit]
Pubs[edit]
In Stevenage, there are roughly 25 pubs. Some are better than others. Here are some of the better ones:

51.91171-0.202582 The Dun Cow, 32 Letchmore Road, ☏ +44 1438 313268. Offers excellent quality Extra-Cold Draught Guinness, the usual selection of Draught and Bottled Beers and Wines and Spirits including Scotch Whisky - "Isle of Jura". Entertainment at the Dun Cow includes the obligatory Pool table, Juke Box, Darts and the occasional Disco and Karaoke evening. The Dun Cow offers guest Real-Ales which are changed on a regular basis. The Dun Cow now offers a covered smoking area to the rear of the buildings. Ample parking space is provided by two car parks. 
51.92109-0.208393 The Marquis Of Granby, 4-6 North Road (Old Stevenage, not far from Lister Hospital), ☏ +44 1438 352934. The Granby is generally considered as the best local in town. It is a lovely old pub with plenty of character. 
51.87374-0.157624 Chequers, A602, Bragbury End, ☏ +44 1438 817814. Chequers is a nice pub and is probably the best bet if you're looking for more than a drink. It's an old pub with character, set back from the busy A602 right on the southern edge of the town. This gives the area a slightly villagey feel. The pub is a short walk from Van Hage's Garden Centre. 
51.91216-0.208615 The Mulberry Tree, 60 High St (Old Stevenage), ☏ +44 1438 355515. A very old pub on the High Street but it's not as classy as it looks from the outside. It's still OK though, but more a pub for the locals than tourists. 
51.90707-0.206656 The Chequers, 164 High St (Old Stevenage), ☏ +44 1438 312842. Chequers is a proper traditional local with a friendly atmosphere. (updated Dec 2020)
If you want to travel further afield some good pubs nearby are:

 George & Dragon, 82 High St, Watton-at-Stone, ☏ +44 1920 830285. George & Dragon is a lovely pub with a cosy atmosphere that serves excellent food and good beer. 
 The Plough, 5 Datchworth Green, Datchworth, ☏ +44 1438 813000. An excellent small and friendly village pub with good beer, located just off Datchworth's lovely green. 
 The Bull, 113 High Street, Watton-at-Stone, ☏ +44 1920 831032. The Bull is full of character with friendly service that serves good food and a good choice of ales. It's reasonably priced too. 
 The Plough, Kings Walden, nr Hitchin, ☏ +44 1438 871394. The Plough is a good country pub with a lovely garden. 
 Motte and Bailey, 1, Great Green, Pirton, near Hitchin, ☏ +44 1462 712641. Excellent village pub with consistently very good food. 
 The Lytton Arms, Park Lane, Old Knebworth, ☏ +44 1438 812312. The Lytton Arms is a reasonable village pub known for its good range of regularly changing guest ales. 
Sleep[edit]
Because Stevenage isn't really a tourist destination, there are not that many hotels for a town of its size.

Hotels in Stevenage[edit]
 Cromwell Hotel, 25-27 High St. Old Town. 3 stars. Part of the Ramada chain and managed by Butterfly Hotels, but is still a pleasant hotel with character, situated on the busy High Street. It used to be John Thurloe's farmhouse, and John Thurloe was secretary to Oliver Cromwell. This is why it used to be called the Oliver Cromwell and many still refer to it by this name. Prices from £30 B&B per night. There are 76 bedrooms, restaurant, bar, lounge, ample parking, and 6 meeting rooms. 
 The Gate Hotel, 1 Gates Way. 1 Ditchmore Lane, Old Town. Good location, comfortable rooms. 
 Stevenage Novotel, Knebworth Park. 3 stars. Large characterless conference hotel, located next to the A1(M) motorway. 
 Roebuck Inn, London Road, Broadwater. 3 stars. Small 15th-century hotel. Part of Best Western Hotel chain. 
 Express by Holiday Inn. Danestrete. Modern hotel conveniently placed in the town centre. It's OK. 
 Stevenage North Premier Travel Inn, Coreys Mill Lane. Very reasonably priced travel inn located between Corey's Mill Beefeater and Lister Hospital. 
 Stevenage South Premier Travel Inn. Horizon Technology Park. 
 The Abbington, 23 Hitchin Rd. Old Town. Average B&B in a cosy old house. 
 Archways Lodge Hotel, 11 Hitchin Rd. Old Town. Modern, clean hotel. Long and short term accommodation. Only a few minutes walk to the High Street. 
 The Old Manse Bed & Breakfast, 1 Essex Road, ☏ +44 1438 210364. Old Town. 
 The Ibis Hotel, Danestrete, ☏ +44 1438 79955. 98 bedrooms which now boast air-conditioning, 6 ft King-size beds, LCD televisions, complimentary Wi-Fi and Scandinavian style wooden floors. The contemporary bathrooms with walk-in showers are designed to be eco-friendly. Bar/cafe all day venue serving breakfast, coffee, lunches afternoon tea and dinner. 
Hotels nearby[edit]
 Hanbury Manor Hotel & Country Club. Near Ware. 5 stars. Outstanding country hotel with renowned Jack Nicklaus golf course. 
 Redcoats Farmhouse Hotel, Redcoats Green, Hitchin. 4 stars. Really good small country hotel with excellent food (has been awarded a coveted AA Rosette). 
 Coltsfoot Country Retreat, Coltsfoot Lane, Bulls Green, Datchworth. Wonderful luxury hotel with superb food. A really special and individual place to stay. 
B&Bs[edit]
There are several B&Bs not previously mentioned, most on the High Street or elsewhere in the Old Town. All are reasonably priced and offer decent accommodation.
One of them, Redwood House in Knebworth, is popular among professionals working in the information technology companies in Stevenage.Bed and Breakfast Agency[dead link]. There are frequent buses and trains between Knebworth and Stevenage.

Go next[edit]
Stevenage is near lovely, undulating countryside and picturesque villages, yet it's only half an hour away from the great city of London. Therefore, this makes Stevenage an ideal base to explore London and the Home Counties.

Nearby attractions[edit]
The following attractions are within about 15 miles of Stevenage:


Hatfield House is a lovely 17th century house set in a very extensive estate. The estate has: the house, the beautiful Old Palace & Knot Garden (the childhood home of Elizabeth I), the famous park and the gorgeous gardens. The park is famous for being the place where Elizabeth I first learned of her ascension to the throne, in 1558 and because it has so many ancient trees.
Shaw's Corner, Ayot St Lawrence. The former home of Irish playwright George Bernard Shaw is set in a couple of acres of pretty gardens in the beautiful village of Ayot St Lawrence. It has a fascinating interior and lots of events this summer as it is the 150th anniversary of GB Shaw's birth.
Nearby villages[edit]
East Hertfordshire Villages

Westmill, nr Buntingford, Herts. Picturesque village with a very good tearoom and excellent pub (Sword In Hand). At its heart is a beautiful green surrounded by idyllic cottages. The village is signposted from the stretch of the A10 between Buntingford and Puckeridge.
Datchworth, nr Stevenage, Herts. Attractive village with an excellent pub (The Plough) and gastro-pub (Tilbury Inn on the Green) and a lovely green on which Cricket is played regularly throughout the Summer.
Benington for the Benington & Benington Lordship, a picturesque small village a couple of miles east of Stevenage, complete with a duck pond, thatches, village green and a beautiful  stone church. Benington Lordship is a beautiful house attached to the ruins of a Norman castle. It is set in several acres of stunning, tranquil gardens.
Ardeley, nr Stevenage, Herts. Beautifully quaint village with a lovely church, pond and village green. Good drinking pub 'The Jolly Waggoner' too.
Standon, nr Ware, Herts. Standon is a beautiful village with a picturesque church, a few good pubs, a lovely river (River Rib) & refurbished mill (now expensive apartments) and an idyllic high street (complete with old fashioned villagey shops- butchers, bakery etc.). There are many interesting listed buildings in the village, such as the former school next to the church. There is also a large lordship house, which you will reach eventually if you walk down Paper Mill Lane. It is the former home of important local historical figure Sir Ralph Sadleir (the school in neighbouring Puckeridge is named after him) and he is buried at the Standon church.
Aston, nr Stevenage, Herts. Picturesque village located on a ridge between the Beane Valley and Stevenage. Just north is the pretty hamlet of Aston End, which is almost part of Stevenage nowadays. It has a beautiful church, St Mary's[dead link] which is the partner parish of the St Mary's at Shephall.
Braughing, nr Ware, Herts. Absolutely lovely village, which is very popular with tourists. It has picturesque buildings, a beautiful church and a ford.
North Hertfordshire Villages

Preston, nr Hitchin, Herts. Beautiful small village with a pub that is excellent for real ales. It grew up around Temple Dinsley, which belonged to the Knights Templar, until it was sold to Sir Ralph Sadleir. Now the site of Temple Dinsley is home to the private school Princess Helena College. Very close to the village is the supposedly haunted ruins of Minsden Chapel. Later on, in the 1600s, John Bunyan held services in a natural amphitheatre in Preston, which was then named Bunyan's Dell. The village also has a very good play area, just behind St Martin's Church, called Churchyard Meadows.
St Paul's Walden, nr Hitchin, Herts. This picturesque tiny village has a good pub, The Strathmore Arms. There is also the superb St Paul's Walden Bury (the family home of the late Queen Mother), which has beautiful grounds and gardens. The Bury is occasionally open to the public. The village also has an unusually large church (for the size of the village) which is set in a prominent position overlooking the Bury, pub, and surrounding countryside. There is plenty of car parking up by the church and at the pub.
Datchworth, nr Stevenage, Herts. Beautiful, small, friendly village with a lovely village green.


Routes through Stevenage




Peterborough ← Letchworth Garden City ←

 N  S 

→ Welwyn Garden City → London








This city travel guide to Stevenage has guide status. It has a variety of good, quality information including hotels, restaurants, attractions and travel details. Please contribute and help us make it a star!







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Stevenage&oldid=4839677"