

Night view of Subang Jaya city centre from SS17.
Subang Jaya is a city in Selangor, Malaysia, about halfway between Kuala Lumpur and state capital Shah Alam. It consists of the Subang Jaya (SS12-SS19) on the Northern end of the city, USJ on the Southern end, Bandar Sunway, Batu Tiga and Putra Heights. The city is a much sought after refuge for middle to upper-middle-class Malaysians.


Understand[edit]
In 1974, Subang Jaya was developed as a residential area from an old rubber estate (Seafield Estate) by Sime Darby. Back then, most only knew of Subang because of the Subang International Airport (Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport, SZB IATA), which has since been replaced by KLIA in Sepang as Malaysia's main international airport. Now the airport focuses mainly on servicing domestic flights and acts as the premier hub for corporate and private aviation in Southeast Asia.
UEP Subang Jaya (USJ) is the newer part of Subang Jaya and was established in 1988. Subang Jaya and USJ are separated by the infamous traffic lights in Persiaran Kewajipan (near Summit USJ shopping mall) which cause residents an additional 5-20 minutes per way in their daily commute because of traffic congestion.
It was detached from Petaling Jaya and Shah Alam and granted municipal rights in 1997, and since then the city has grown rapidly. It started as a primarily residential area, but it has developed into an internationally renowned city. It is also dubbed as the main education hub of Klang Valley, as there is a concentration of colleges, universities and schools. Over the years, there has been a significant influx of overseas students.

Get in[edit]
Map of Subang Jaya
By train[edit]
Subang Jaya station is at the northern edge of Subang Jaya. It is directly behind Carrefour (now AEON Big) and Subang Parade in SS16. Since 2016 it has been an interchange station between KTM Komuter Port Klang-Tanjung Malim line and the Kelana Jaya LRT Line.

KTM Komuter[edit]
The [www.ktmb.com.my KTM Komuter] is a convenient mode of transport to central locations in the city and to towns in the neighbouring states (north - Perak, south - Negeri Sembilan):

KL Sentral - connection by Kelana Jaya Line to KLCC or Sungai Buloh-Kajang MRT Line to Bandar Utama and Kajang;
Bank Negara - named after Malaysia's central bank, the station is a gateway to Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman
MidValley - one of Malaysia's largest shopping malls, albeit on the Batu Caves-Tampin line instead;
Klang - home to Bak Kut Teh
Batu Caves - limestone hill housing several Hindu cave temples
Tanjung Malim - small town at the Perak state border (north of Selangor) - passengers can switch to the Electric Train Service (E.T.S.) and continue to Ipoh, Penang or even Kedah and Perlis
Seremban - state capital of  Negeri Sembilan (south of Selangor). Famous for their siew pao. From here passengers can continue to Gemas and switch to the diesel-powered trains to Johor, Pahang or Kelantan.
Kelana Jaya Line[edit]
The Kelana Jaya LRT line, which used to terminate at Kelana Jaya station, extends through Subang Jaya and then on to Putra Heights, covering many parts of Subang Jaya.

KTM Komuter - Skypark Link[edit]
A branch line of the aforementioned KTM Komuter service was constructed, linking Subang Jaya to the Subang Airport (Subang Skypark) and to KL Sentral. The service opened in May 2018, and is Malaysia's second airport rail link service, after the KLIA Ekspres.

By bus[edit]
Bus services connect points in Malaysia and Singapore directly to Subang Jaya, bypassing Kuala Lumpur and its traffic jams. Aeroline and Transtar buses operate from Sunway Pyramid, while First Coach runs from the Holiday Villa hotel in SS12.
Stage bus operator RapidKL has several routes that connect downtown Kuala Lumpur to Subang Jaya, Shah Alam and finally Klang.
Subang Jaya is also home to Malaysia's only bus rapid transit (BRT) service, the BRT Sunway Line, mainly serving the Bandar Sunway locality. The BRT line begins at Setia Jaya station on the KTM Komuter, and ends at USJ 7 station on the Kelana Jaya LRT Line.

By taxi[edit]
All metered taxis operating in Kuala Lumpur also serve Subang Jaya.

By car[edit]
Getting into Subang Jaya is a breeze (as long as you avoid rush hours). It is well connected to most major highways:

Federal Highway - cuts through most major areas in Klang Valley including Petaling Jaya, central Kuala Lumpur, Shah Alam and Klang. No toll charges
New Pantai Expressway (NPE) - to Bandar Sunway and Subang Jaya (SS12-SS19)
Damansara-Puchong Highway (LDP) - to Putra Heights and UEP Subang Jaya
New Klang Valley Expressway (NKVE) - to Subang Jaya (cuts through Subang Airport Highway)
Kesas Highway - to UEP Subang Jaya (3 exits to USJ from Kuala Lumpur)
Subang Airport Highway - to UEP Subang Jaya (USJ) and Subang Jaya
Get around[edit]
Lebuhraya Pantai Baru on a rainy day in 2010
By bus[edit]
To/from Kuala Lumpur, Subang Jaya is linked to Kuala Lumpur by Rapid KL buses. They usually charge a flat RM1 rate for trips around Subang Jaya and to other parts of Klang Valley. It is advisable to get a Touch N Go card for easier accessibility to these public transports.
By taxi[edit]
Taxis are also available, but the best way to get around is your own car because it is very expensive to travel in taxis. Often RM1 surcharge on top of the meter.

 Comfort Taxi, ☏ +60 3 2692 2525. 
 Super Cab Taxi, ☏ +60 3 7805 5333. 
 Radio Cab Taxi, ☏ +60 3 2693 6211. 
 Public Cab Taxi, ☏ +60 3 6259 2020. 
By car[edit]
Avoid using Persiaran Kewajipan during rush hour as the traffic is usually very congested. It is easy to travel in the city as there are many sign boards to direct the routes. Also, there are many different routes you can take to travel in the city. Persiaran Kewajipan and Persiaran Tujuan serve as the main routes in the city.
Subang Jaya has adopted the numbered-precinct system also used in neighboring Petaling Jaya, so take a look at that article for clues about decrypting addresses.  Roughly, Subang Jaya consists of precincts SS12 to SS19 on the north side (the numbers increase as you head west) and precincts USJ 1 to USJ 29 on the south side (number increases to the south).

See[edit]
Sunway Lagoon Resort and Sunway Pyramid are well-known tourist destinations throughout the whole Klang Valley. It is in Bandar Sunway and it is nearby Subang Jaya. Besides that, there are many other shopping malls such as Subang Parade, Empire Subang, Carrefour SS16, First Subang, The 19 USJ City Mall and Summit USJ.

3.082101.5951 Subang Ria Recreational Park, SS12. A beautiful 30 acres (12 hectares) lake in the city. It is easily accessible by public transport and there are ample parking spaces for private vehicles. It is also home to the famous seafood restaurant Crocodile Farm and the largest paintball park (TT Sports Park) in Malaysia. Its public park status is a regular issue among the Subang residents, the owner Sime Darby, and the local City Council. 
 Faber-Castell Malaysia Headquarters (A.W. Faber-Castell (M) Sdn. Bhd.), 9, Jl. TP2, Taman Perisdustrian Sime UEP. The World's Largest Pencil, a Castell 9000, is at Faber-Castell's facility in Taman Perisdustrian Sime UEP. 
 Proton Malaysia Headquarters (Proton Holdings Berhad), Taman Perisdustrian Sime UEP. It is the largest Proton showroom in the Klang Valley and can be seen from the KESAS expressway. 
 Lotus Cars (Proton Holdings Berhad), Taman Perisdustrian Sime UEP (Sime UEP Industrial Park). It is the only Lotus showroom in the Klang Valley and is alongside the Proton headquarters. 
 Lamborghini Kuala Lumpur, SS13. It is the only official Lamborghini distributor and retailer in Malaysia. It also has a workshop which services internationally renowned marques such as Ferrari, Porsche, Hummer, Lotus, Jaguar, Bentley and Rolls Royce. However in 2012, they have moved to a new showroom in nearby Glenmarie. 
Do[edit]
Sports centres[edit]
There are many sports centres in Subang Jaya. There are more than 10 badminton centres/courts there.

 3K Sports Complex, SS13. Community complex featuring indoor swimming pool, badminton courts, squash courts, many other activities available here. 
 MPSJ Sports Complex, USJ 5. Community complex featuring a football field, a running track and other facilities. 
Futsal centres[edit]
 Sportsplanet, SS13. It is directly opposite Lamborghini Kuala Lumpur 
 De Stadium, USJ 19. It is in the industrial park of USJ 19. The price is among the cheapest in Subang Jaya. In the afternoon, the price is around RM40 an hour. Besides that, there are student rates during the noon. 
 Ferro Futsal, Taman Perindustrian Subang (Subang Industrial Park). The largest indoor soccer facility in the Subang Jaya area with the capacity of eight standard regulation size pitches and one FIFA standard regulation international court facilities. 
 HTO de futsal, Taman Perindustrian Subang (Subang Industrial Park). 
Fitness centres[edit]
 True Fitness, USJ 10 Taipan. 
 Celebrity Fitness, SS16 (Subang Parade). 
 Fitness First Platinium, SS16 (Empire Subang). 
 Yap Twin Sport Management, USJ 19. It is a very well-known badminton coaching company. 
 The Body Express Fitness Club, SS16 (Subang Avenue). It is an exclusive fitness centre and have trainers with many years of experience. 
Golf clubs[edit]
 Subang National Golf Club, Kelana Jaya. 
 Saujana Golf & Country Club, Saujana Subang. 
 Glenmarie Golf & Country Club, Glenmarie, Shah Alam. 
 Subang Racquet and Golf Club, SS16. 
Buy[edit]
There is a huge mall culture in Malaysia (the larger cities at least). If you visit Klang Valley, you will notice many shopping malls mushrooming in the landscape of the congested city. Within 10 minutes (or 20 in the case of bad traffic) of each other, you will see 4 sizeable malls.

 The 19 USJ City Mall, Persiaran Kewajipan Rd (right after Summit USJ and USJ 10 Taipan), ☏ +60 3-8023 0286, enquiry@the19.com.my. Daily 10AM-10PM. Restaurants and cafes may be found near the main entrance including Milwaukee for steaks and Papa Rich for coffee. The complex has a Carrefour supermarket. Level-1 has a Korean BBQ restaurant and some electronic and mobile phone shops. Level-2 has World Famous Streets a retail themed shopping area named after famous world streets. It also has a weekend carnival of street food, fashion outlets, and a spa. 
Sunway Pyramid, not in Subang Jaya, but in the neighbouring city - Petaling Jaya. This mall has been upgraded with a new wing to compete with the bigger shopping malls, Includes Coach, Topshop, Charles & Keith and Mango - but no Zara. They also have anchor tenants - Parkson, Jusco and Giant. It also has a cinema (TGV), a karaoke (Red Box) and a skating rink (where you can sneak a peak at the ice hockey training at night).
3.081743101.5830141 Subang Parade, SS16. This is one of the oldest malls around. It has been refurbished and upgraded, but remains a family-oriented shopping mall. This is the "hang-out" for many families during the weekends when they want to escape from the heat at home. During the weekend, there are a variety of local stalls set up on the top floor of the building for cheap bargains. Many dining restaurants and cafes including Dome, T.G.I. Fridays, Swensens, Sakae Sushi, Uncle Lim's, Nandos, The Manhattan Fish Market, Secret Recipe, Chillis, Celebrity Fitness and Big Apple Donuts. It also has a cinema (MBO).   
 Empire Subang, SS16. A newer shopping gallery. Floursheim, Coach, Guess, Charles & Keith and exclusive dining restaurants such as Itallianies, Chilli's, Din Tai Fung, La Bodega, Ole-Ole Bali and Empire Hotel Subang's in-house restaurants - Kitchen Art Brasserie, Di Wei Chinese Restaurant, and SHOUT. (updated Jul 2015)
 Carrefour Subang Jaya, SS16. Next to the Subang Jaya KTM Train station. It is often bustling due to its proximity with the train station and major bus and taxi stop. There are many cafes and restaurants such as Starbucks, Kenny Rogers Chicken and Subway. 
 First Subang, SS15. It is in the heart of the busy central district of SS15. It consists of studio units and retail lots. It is the main hub of nightlife as there are a few nightclubs such as The Library, Overtime, etc and many pubs. 
 USJ Taipan, USJ 10. The Taipan retail lots are contains a wide variety of shopping, restaurants, clinics, banks, cafes, fashion outlets and more. It is noted for traffic congestion and a lack of sufficient parking spaces during working hours. 
 Summit Subang USJ, Persiaran Kewajipan, USJ 1. The Summit shopping mall has a few restaurants, cafes, fashion outlets. However, it is not a very popular shopping destination for the residents in Subang Jaya because it is quite rundown as it has been maintained for many years. But still, there are popular fast food restaurants such as McDonald's, Subway and KFC. 
 Giant USJ, USJ 1. The Giant supermarket has only a food court and a Guardian pharmacy. It is one of the oldest Giant supermarket in the Klang Valley so it is not as premium as the Giant supermarket in Putra Heights. Moreover, the traffic from Persiaran Kewajipan to Giant USJ is quite congested during rush hours. Now closed and moving to SS15 First Subang tower, most possibly to compete with nearby other major supermarkets like Carrefour, Cold Storage and Jaya Grocer instead of Mydin. 
 Giant Putra Heights, Jalan Putra Indah. The Giant supermarket in Putra Heights has a few restaurants, cafes and fashion outlets. Its ambient is very premium compared to other Giant supermarkets in the Klang Valley. 
 Mydin USJ, USJ 1. The Mydin supermarket has a few restaurants, cafes and fashion outlets. It is normally packed as its prices are cheap compared to other supermarkets. There is a KFC restaurant in Mydin USJ. 
 One City, USJ 25 (in between of LDP and ELITE highway), ☏ +60 3-80239988. 
Eat[edit]
Eating is the favorite pastime of most Malaysians. As such, many food outlets are dotted around Subang Jaya. There is a wide variety of food to choose from. Fast food franchises are ample in the city, most of which you can find in the shopping malls - from the basics like McDonald's, KFC, Subway, Burger King, A&W to bakery/confectionery like Bread Story, J&Co Donuts (Sunway Pyramid), Big Apple Donuts (Subang Parade) and O'Briens. Besides that, there are restaurants such as Tony Roma's, The Manhattan Fish Market, Nando's Chicken, Chili's, Din Tai Fung, T.G.I. Friday's and La Bodega. The city is mostly known for its Japanese foods as there are more than 10 Japanese restaurants.

American[edit]
Chili's - in Empire Subang. It serves American food influenced by Tex-Mex cuisine. It has a bar and is usually packed so a booking is advised if you want to dine in here.
Victoria Station - in USJ 10 Taipan. It is famous for its charbroil steak and seafood. London train carriages have been used for the restaurant.
The Manhattan Fish Market - in SS16 (Subang Parade).
Kenny Rogers Roasters - in Subang Parade and Empire Subang. They serve delicious flame-grilled chicken with less salts and calories.
Balinese[edit]
Ole-Ole Bali - in SS16 (Empire Subang) and Sunway Pyramid. It serves Balinese food. The prices are a little pricey but it is worth every penny! The portion is big and it has a wide variety of food to choose from. Its ambient is very cozy and Balinese feel.
Chinese[edit]
Devil's Crab - in USJ 9 (Subang Business Centre). It is famous for its Nyonya crabs, fried cod fish.
South Sea - in Kampung Baru Subang. It is a very famous seafood restaurant throughout the Klang Valley. It is near the Subang Airport.
Imperial China - in Jaya Square, SS17. An exclusive Chinese restaurant serving canton dim sum in the morning and normal dining during lunch and dinner.
Grand Imperial - in the 19 USJ City Mall. It serves fine Chinese food cooked by award-winning chefs.
Oversea Restaurant - in SS16 (Subang Parade). It is widely known for their contemporary Chinese cuisine. It was established in 1977 when it was first opened in Jalan Imbi, Kuala Lumpur.
Esquire Kitchen
Di Wei - in SS16 (Empire Hotel Subang). It serves fine Chinese foods. It is a little pricey though.
Din Tai Fung - in SS16 (Empire Subang). International restaurant chain famous for its expensive Xiao Long Baos, dumplings, beef noodles and seafood fried rice.
New Restaurant Ipoh Chicken Rice - in SS15. They have been operating this food business since 1997, best known for their famous bean sprouts and chicken with a choice of kampung chicken or ordinary chicken cooked either by roasting or boiling.
Ah Ping Bah Kut Teh - in SS14. Long established as one of the most popular Bah Kut Teh shops among the many shops in its vicinity. Opens from 5PM till sold out by 9PM.
Fusion[edit]
Asia Cafe - in SS15. It a food court serving a large variety of food in a hawker-concept. It is famous for its fried oyster egg, Portuguese grilled fish, har mee, char kuey teow, nasi lemak and pasta.
Delicious - in Sunway Pyramid. It is famous for its sandwiches, quiches, steaks, pasta, etc.
German[edit]
Logenhaus Roast & Grill - in USJ 10 Taipan. It is one of the most famous German restaurants which also serves halal German food.
Indian[edit]
Nirvana Maju - in USJ 9 (Subang Business Centre). It is a very famous restaurant among the locals. It gained much popularity when it first opened in Bangsar many years ago. It serves one of the best and authentic banana leaf cuisine in the Klang Valley.
Indian Heritage - in USJ 10 Taipan. The cuisine of India found at Indian Heritage is characterized by its sophisticated and subtle use of many spices and herbs. Traditional Northern Indian food. Buffet is available during lunch on weekdays.
D'Tandoor - in SS15. It is the same famous Indian cuisine from KL Tower. It serves one of the finest Indian cuisines in Malaysia with good hospitality and absolute quality.
3.04341101.583111 Meena Curry House 2, 17, Jalan USJ9/3F, ☏ +60 112-8247976, meenacurryhouse2@hotmail.com. 8AM-9PM. Indian restaurant serving tasty food using quality ingredients. (updated Sep 2015)
Italian[edit]
Pizza Uno - in USJ 10 Taipan. It is one of the most famous Italian restaurants in the Klang Valley. They have a branch in USJ and Bandar Utama. One of their most famous dishes are marinara sauce (seafood) pasta, Romeo special and many more. Imported beers and other beverages.
Italiannies - in Empire Subang. The portion they serve in normally for 2 pax and the price is reasonable.
Domino's Pizza - in USJ 9, SS12 Putra Heights. An international pizza restaurant which is famous for New York crusts.
Pizza Hut - in USJ 9, Taipan USJ 10 and SS15. They offer different styles of pizza along with a wide variety of side dishes.
Sarpino's Pizza - in USJ Sentral. Their pizzas are made with authentic ingredients and guarantee their customers a truly "Italian Experience".
Allegro Cafe Trattoria Italiano - in SS15/4. One of those restaurants with a truly authentic Italian and homey atmosphere, serving specialities such as fettuccine salmone, lamb shank with blue cheese sauce and Tiramisu.
Japanese[edit]
Rakuzen - in SS15 and SS16 (Empire Subang). It is one of the most famous premium Japanese restaurants in the Klang Valley. The bento set they serve for lunch is relatively cheaper by RM8 compared to dinner.
Jyu Raku - in SS15. Japanese restaurant. It is beside Rakuzen (SS15). Its owner is the former head chef of Rakuzen next door.
Ido Ichi - in SS15. Japanese restaurant. It has 6 branches in Malaysia.
Tomoe - in SS15.  Japanese restaurant beside Rakuzen. It serves more on authentic Japanese food but it is a little expensive.
Hyotan - in SS15.
Yamada - in SS12. Japanese restaurant opposite SJMC.
Bentoya - in SS15. Japanese restaurant opposite Asia Cafe. It is on the first floor of the retail lot.
Sumi Ka - in SS15. Japanese restaurant on the first floor of a retail lot in SS15. Although it is on the first floor, it is usually packed. The customers are usually Japanese than Malaysian. It is famous for its grilled food.
Ryu Men Tei - in SS15. One of the oldest Japanese restaurants in Subang Jaya. The pricing is about RM35 per person. It is famous for its seafood teppanyaki, ramen and sushi.
Sumo - in USJ 9 (Subang Business Centre). Modest Japanese restaurant in the city..
Kobe Gyutaku Japanese BBQ - in SS15. It is an exclusive Japanese restaurant which is famous for its grilled rib eye, short ribs and many more! The experience here is simply heavenly especially for bovine lovers.
Kinpachi - in SS17. It is in a quieter part of the city and is one of the first Japanese restaurants opened in the city.
Zen - in Sunway Pyramid. It is parent company is the same as Rakuzen.
Miyako - in SS12. This restaurant is situated in the Grand Dorsett Subang Hotel (formerly Sheraton Subang).
Sakura Sakura Hakata - in SS12. This restaurant (formerly known as Shun) is among one of the oldest Japanese establishments in Subang Jaya.
Korean[edit]
Daorae Korean BBQ - in USJ 10 Taipan. It is one of the most exclusive and famous Korean restaurants in the Klang Valley. It has a branch in Ampang and USJ. However, prices are a little expensive compared to other Korean restaurants in the city.
Da Chang Jin - in USJ 10 Taipan. It is a Korean restaurant which serves very healthy and delicious food. The prices are relatively cheaper than the others.
Han Woo Ri - in USJ 10 Taipan. It an exclusive and famous Korean restaurant from Ampang near Daorae Korean BBQ restaurant. the service and hospitality is absolute but the prices are above average.
Seoul Palace - in The 19 USJ City Mall. It serves authentic Korean cuisine unlike other restaurants.
Da Sang Rang - in SS15. It serves Korean cuisine with MSG. It is above McDonald's.
Malaysian & Indonesian[edit]
Salero Negori - in SS15/5A. It serves an authentic spread of Negeri Sembilan (a state further south from Selangor) cuisine.
Kitchen Art Brasserie - in SS16 (Empire Hotel Subang). It caters a mix of Malaysian and International cuisine. Hi-Tea is also available during the weekends.
Belanga - in SS16 (Empire Subang). It serves a mix of Malaysian and Indonesian cuisine.
Nyonya Colors - in SS16 (Empire Subang). It specializes in premium homemade quality Nyonya cuisine.
Pelita Nasi Kandar - in SS15. Popular for nasi kandar and is opened 24 hr.
Nasi Lemak USJ 11 - in Jalan USJ 11/2. It is a store at the roadside near a row of semi-d houses in USJ 11. Selling here for 10 over years. Despite its roadside environment, many people queue up at the roadside early in the morning just to eat the nasi lemak. The chili sambal the owner serves is one of the best. Furthermore, it has a wide variety of side dishes such as sambal sotong, sambal ayam, sambal mussel, sambal udang, etc. It is only opened in the morning from 7AM-10AM and closed during Hari Raya Aidilfitri
Kayu Nasi Kandar - in USJ 10 Taipan. It serves authentic Nasi Kandar since 1974. The taste is slightly different from Pelita Nasi Kandar.
Patio@9 - in USJ 9. It is one of the nightlife hotspots in USJ. It is opened 24/7.
Makbul - in USJ 9. It is one of the famous mamak restaurant in the city. It is opened 24/7.
Murni Discovery - in USJ 9. It is the same famous mamak restaurant in SS2, PJ. the portion they serve is usually huge and they also serve fusion cuisine.
Restoran Delima - in Tiara Square, Sime UEP Industrial Park. It serves authentic nasi melayu + nasi padang home cook & night it serve tomyam seafood, Thai cuisine. It is opened 7:30AM-noon & closed on Saturday.
Sri Melur Jaya - in USJ 17 and SS19. It is famous for its various types of roti. It is usually crowded during lunch/break time and is only opened 12 hours.
Rojak & Cendol SS15 - there appears to be a perpetual queue for rojak and cendol in SS 15 near Subang Square, opposite the football field. The rojak and cendol are now sold in the stands labeled 'Rojak SS15 Subang Jaya' and 'Best Cendol in SS 15 Subang Jaya' (used to be in a van).  Price ranges from RM3.20-4 depending on what variety of items you want in your rojak. The cendol costs RM1.40.
Old Town and Old Town Signature - in Taipan USJ 10, USJ 21 Subang Avenue and The Summit. It is famous for its Ipoh white coffee. Taipan USJ 10 has two outlets, Old Town and Old Town Signature.
Paparich - in Taipan USJ 10, SS15. It is famous for most of the Malaysian delicacies.
Uncle Lim's - in Subang Parade. It is famous for its roti bakar and other Malaysian breakfast delicacies. The locals usually come here to have their morning breakfast.
Teh Tarik Place - in Empire Subang. It is famous for its various types of Malaysian food and especially their 'Teh Tarik'.
Mexican[edit]
Las Carretas - in USJ 10 Taipan. Steak, carrot soup, lamb stew and many more.
Middle Eastern and Lebanese[edit]
Tarbush Restaurant - in Empire Subang. They serve one of the best Middle Eastern cuisines in the Klang Valley. It is a fine dining restaurant.
South African[edit]
Nando's - in SS16 (Subang Parade) and USJ 10 Taipan. It is famous for its peri-peri sauce and chicken.
Spanish[edit]
La Bodega - in SS16 (Empire Subang). Spanish food, also a pub which opens till late.
La Cocina - in USJ 9 (Subang Business Centre). Spanish food.
Organic foods[edit]
Organic Fresh Mart Enterprise - in SS18. Serves organic foods. They also sell other organic products.
Just Life - in USJ 14.
Green Wood Vegetarian And Organic Mart  - in SS15.
Thai[edit]
Sri Ayutthaya - in USJ 11. It is one of the most famous Thai restaurants in the Klang Valley which also has a branch in Damansara Heights. Authentically Thai.
Thai Corner - in USJ 10 Taipan. It is famous for its kerabu chicken, Thai fish, pandan chicken and many more.
Green House Thai Cuisine - in SS18. It serves one of the finest Thai cuisines in Malaysia. It is a very famous restaurant among the locals.
Sawadee Thai Kitchen - in USJ 1. It is a very famous Thai restaurant featuring authentic Thai cuisine.
Phad Thai - in USJ 10 Taipan. It is an authentic Thai restaurant run by Thai Muslims.
Dessert[edit]
Delicious - in Sunway Pyramid. It is famous for its Macadamia nuts cake and chocolate brownie with ice cream. They also serve main dishes as well.
Dessert Brothers Hong Kong - in SS15. It serves a wide variety of famous Hong Kong desserts.
Dessert's Bar - in Subang Parade. It serves a wide variety of cake etc.
Snowflake - in SS15. Famous for its iced grass jelly and taro ball desserts. Popular and it is normally packed. It is in SS15.
Blackball - in SS15. It is a very established dessert shop and now stands as one of the biggest dessert chains in Taipei with over 20 outlets and still expanding. It is famous for its blackball and taro ball desserts.
Baskin-Robbins - in Taipan USJ 10, SS15 and Subang ParadeIt is famous for its Jamoca Almond fudge flavor and low-fat yogurt ice cream.
100 Yen - in Taipan USJ 10 and SS15. Famous for its flavoured shaved ice with chocolate, raisin or fruit topping.
Bakeries[edit]
The Carpenter's Daughter - in Taipan USJ 10
Berry's Cake House - in Taipan USJ 10
Moon Garden Bakery and Cafe - in Taipan USJ 10 (same row as KFC). There are two other branches in Desa Sri Hartamas and Kota Kemuning.
The Baker's Cottage - in Taipan USJ 10
Drink[edit]
Around Subang Jaya are countless of mamaks and cafes, ranging from kopitiam to premier classes. Here are only some of them:

 Starbucks Coffee, SS15, USJ 10 Taipan, Taylor's Lakeside, SS16 (Empire Subang) & (Subang Parade). 
 The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf, Subang Parade, USJ 10 Taipan and Empire Subang. 
 Gloria Jean's Coffee, Subang Parade. 
 Boost Juice Bars, Subang Parade. It specializes in ice-blended juices with fresh fruits from Melbourne, Australia. 
 JuiceWorks, in Empire Subang and Sunway Pyramid. A juice store serving healthy juices. 
 Station One Cafe, in USJ 10 Taipan, SS15 and Bandar Sunway. 
 Asia Cafe, in SS15. 
 PapaRich, in USJ 10 Taipan, SS15 and The 19 USJ City Mall. 
 Old Town White Coffee, in USJ 10 Taipan, SS15 and Sunway Mentari. 
 Daiki Cafe, in SS15. 
 Dome Cafe, in Subang Parade. 
 Grafa Cafe, in SS15. The cafe was built on the philosophy of design aesthetics. A design studio cum cycling lifestyle retail outlet plus a bicycle cafe, it comes as no surprise that these two seemingly unrelated activities be bound by their appreciation of good aesthetics. 
 Cafe Bliss 33, in USJ 2 and USJ 9. 
 Austin Chase, in First Subang, SS15. Austin Chase is the latest premium coffee retail store brand to hit this part of the world, beginning with Malaysia and Singapore 
 Coffee Chemistry Signature, in First Subang, SS15. 1st cafe in Malaysia serving Graffeo coffee. Also serves delicious food, using fresh ingredients. 
 Chatime, in First Subang, SS15, Summit USJ. Chatime is a bubble tea franchise from Taiwan. Established in 2005, it now has over 450 retail locations worldwide. 
3.07412101.590361 Flat White, No 73-1, Jalan SS15/8a, Subang Jaya (Opposite Asia Cafe), flatwhitemy@gmail.com. Offers fine coffee and indulgent desserts. 
Nightlife[edit]
Whilst most Subang-ians venture out to the heart of Kuala Lumpur, others venture in. As it started off as a residential and very family-oriented city, nightlife in Subang is relatively new.

 The Library, at Lot G1, G2 & G27, Ground Floor, First Subang, Jln SS15/4G, ☏ +60 3-2070 7178. The Library have built upon the concept with our offer of Malaysia's largest selection of both imported and locally brewed beers, a variety of premium liquor, as well as a tantalising food menu. It is one of the most famous nightlife hubs in the Klang Valley. 
 OverTime, at G9, G10 & G11, Ground Floor, First Subang, Jln SS15/4G, ☏ +60 10-876 6239. 
 Chill Out, at Lot G31, Ground Floor,Subang Parade No. 5 Jl. SS16/1, ☏ +60 3 5635 5508. Chill Out is an exclusive pub. They serve all kinds of liquor and alcohol at a reasonable price. It is one of the most famous nightlife hubs in Subang Jaya. 
 Skewers, in SS16 (Subang Avenue). Skewers is a social hotspot in Subang Avenue. Skewers Restaurant and Bar is designed to provide an enjoyable dining and drinking experience. Furthermore, it stocks a host of international beers, whiskeys and wines. 
 Club 9, at Jalan SS15/4A. Club 9 is a pub established in 2008. They play music from R&B to disco classics to trance. Frequented by students from the neighbouring colleges and universities. It is also very well-known for its wide variety of pool tables for entertainment. They even have tournament pool tables for professionals. Frequently, the professionals will have their major tournaments in Club 9. 
Sleep[edit]
Budget[edit]
 Cottage Inn, in USJ 9. 
 De Uptown Boutique Hotel, in SS15. 
 Summer Oscar Boutique Hotel, in USJ Sentral. 
Splurge[edit]
3.081733101.5822961 Empire Hotel Subang, in SS16, ☏ +60 3 5565 1388, fax: +60 3 5565 1288. 4-star business hotel with 198 rooms plus convention hall, restaurants and cafes. Empire Shopping Gallery, with many retail stores and a supermarket, is downstairs. 
 Grand Dorsett Subang, in SS12. 
 Holiday Villa Subang, in SS12. 
 Pyramid Tower, in PJS 11, Bandar Sunway. 
 Ruemz Hotel, in Taylor's Lakeside Campus. 
 Summit Hotel, in USJ 1, ☏ +60 3 8023 3000. Less than 20 min away from the major cities of Kuala Lumpur, Petaling Jaya, and Shah Alam. 332 guestrooms and suites with cableTV, mini-bar and internet. From RM160. 
 Sunway Lagoon Resort & Spa, in PJS 11, Bandar Sunway. 
Cope[edit]
Sime Darby Medical Centre Subang Jaya (better known as SJMC - Subang Jaya Medical Centre) - in SS12.
Sunway Medical Centre - at Jalan Lagoon Selatan, Bandar Sunway.
iRehab Physiotherapy and Stroke Rehabilitation Centre - at SS17, Subang Jaya
Go next[edit]
By train[edit]
KTM Subang Jaya station, on the KTM Komuter Klang-Sentul line, is at the northern edge of Subang Jaya. It is behind Carrefour and Subang Parade in SS16.
The [www.ktmb.com.my KTM Komuter] is a convenient mode of transport both to central locations in the city and towns in the neighbouring states (north - Perak, south - Negeri Sembilan):

KL Sentral - connection by Putra LRT to KLCC
Bank Negara - the Central Bank
MidValley - one of Malaysia's largest shopping malls
Klang - home to Bak Kut Teh
Batu Caves - limestone hill housing several Hindu cave temples
Tanjung Malim - small town at the Perak state border (north of Selangor)
Seremban - small town in Negeri Sembilan (south of Selangor). Famous for their siew pao
By bus[edit]
There are a number of bus services that connect points in Malaysia and Singapore directly from Subang Jaya, bypassing Kuala Lumpur and its traffic jams. Aeroline  and Transtar buses operate from Sunway Pyramid, while First Coach runs from the Holiday Villa hotel in SS12.

By taxi[edit]
All metered taxis operating in Subang Jaya also serve Kuala Lumpur.

By car[edit]
Getting out of Subang Jaya is a breeze (as long as you avoid rush hours). It is well connected to most major highways:

Federal Highway - cuts through most major areas in Klang Valley including Petaling Jaya, central Kuala Lumpur, Shah Alam and Klang. No toll charges
New Pantai Expressway (NPE) - to Bangsar and Kuala Lumpur city centre
Damansara-Puchong Highway (LDP) - to Petaling Jaya and Kuala Lumpur city centre
New Klang Valley Expressway (NKVE) - to Damansara, Sri Hartamas and Kuala Lumpur city centre
Kesas Highway - to Kota Kemuning, Cheras, Bukit Jalil, KLIA, Klang and Kuala Lumpur city centre
Subang Airport Highway - to Kelana Jaya, Saujana Subang, Ara Damansara and Subang Airport.







This city travel guide to Subang Jaya has guide status. It has a variety of good, quality information including hotels, restaurants, attractions and travel details. Please contribute and help us make it a star!







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Subang_Jaya&oldid=4827416"