
Szreniawa (pronounced as Shrehnyahvah) is a village Greater Poland. It is 16 km south-east of Poznan, next to the railway leading from Poznan to Wolsztyn, and next to roads number 5 Poznan-Wroclaw, and number 32 to Zielona Gora and just few steps from Wielkopolski National Park.


Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
The quickest way to get here from the centre of Poznan is to use trains. Szreniawa is on a side-railway from Poznan to Wolsztyn with 9 daily connections. The most interesting way to come here is to choose trains leaving Poznan at approximately 09:00 or 17:00, as those two use old historical steam locomotives. You can come back using the same historical trains: from Szreniawa to POznan at approximately 07:00 and 15:00. The journey will take you about 25 minutes.

By bus[edit]
From Gorczyn Bus Station (accessible from the centre of Poznan by trams #5, #8 i #14 and bus #63) there're pretty many suburban buses running to Rosnowo, Rosnowko and Konarzewo. The timetable can be found here: [1] [dead link]. Travel time (tram in the city + bus): from 35 to 50 minutes.
Besides you can get to Szreniawa using numerous PKS buses, leaving from the central bus station in Poznan - all (apart from express ones) buses going to Steszew, Grodzisk, Leszno, Koscian stop in Szreniawa. That journey should take you appr. half an hour, depending on traffic.

By bike[edit]
As Szreniawa is next to Wielkopolski National Park it's a good idea to use a bike to get there. Rather than driving the busy road number 5, it's much nicer to cycle from Poznan to Puszczykowo and later across the forest of the National Park. In the park it is permitted to cycle using pedestrian trails or all public or dirt roads.

By car[edit]
Szreniawa is on two main roads: number 5 from Gdansk and Bydgoszcz through Poznan to Wroclaw, which is slowly turned into ad express road and road number 32 from Poznan to Zielona Gora.

Get around[edit]
Szreniawa is a small village, so all attractions are nearby. The only further one - the Bierbaum-family viewing tower is in the forest, so it's accessible ob foot or by bike (in winter cross-country skiing is allowed too).

See[edit]
The attractions of Szreniawa are:

The Agricultural and Food-Processing Museum - open in 1964, the only one big and important Agriculture Museum in Poland and one of only few in Europe. The collection covers more than 20 thousand exhibits: from small utensils to huge agricultural machines; it show the agricultural techniques from the oldest ones to modern ones.
The collection is divided into several parts: the technical agriculture, animal breeding, bee-tree-keeping, cultivation, hop-breeding, willow industry, countryside transport, food processing, craftsmanship, fishing, ethnography, history and countryside art. The most interesting exhibits (especially for children) are the steam-locomobiles (seven in collection), including the oldest one: a small Robey & Com locomobile from 1895; the youngest one is a big locomobile Kemn - Breslau from 1927. There's as well a good collection of old tractors used on the polish territories manufactured by Lanz, Deutz, Zetor, Ursus and Fordson. The collection of countryside transport can be fascinating, too: a bicycle from 1890 manufactured by a local craftsman and sledges or cabs from different parts of our country.
The ethnographical part of the museum covers the collection of wood folk sculptures presenting scenes from everyday life and a rich set of folk china from all main china-producing cities across Poland.
The museum is open from April till October Tu-F from 09:00 to 17:00, Sa Su to 19:00, and in winter Tu-Su from 09:00 to 15:00.

The viewing Bierbaum Tower, located in Wielkopolski National Park - subordinated to the museum, 22 metres high. This was the Mausoleum of the Bierbaum family, who were the first owners of Szreniawa. From 1993 the tower has been in the monument register. Next to the tower you'll find a small exhibition presenting the history of areas of the National Park and its surroundings from the late paleolithic to present times. On the tower top - viewing platform. The Tower is open from April till October Tu-F from 09:00 to 17:00, Sa Su to 19:00, and in winter Tu-Su from 09:00 to 15:00.
Interesting tourist trails (for pedestrians, cyclers and CC-skiers) starting in Szreniawa and leading toward the Wielkopolski National Park, ending e.g. in Puszczykowo.
Do[edit]
There are numerous annual events in the Museum:

The Easter Feast - usually 3 or 4 weeks before Easter
The Easter Market - always on the palm Sunday (a week before Easter)
The Whisuntide Feast - according to its name in May or June
events about different national minorities living in Poland (Ukrainians, Tartars, Caraims)
The former countryside-style wedding
The autumn Festival about old polish autumn traditions
The Christmas Market with the show presenting polish Advent traditions
Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Connect[edit]
 The Agricultural Museum in Szreniawa, 5, Dworcowa str., 62-052 Komorniki, ☏ +48 61 81 07 629, muzeum@muzeum-szreniawa.pl. 
Go next[edit]
Szreniawa is along the main roads in western Poland, so it's very easy to get out from here to e.g. Grodzisk Wielkopolski and Wolsztyn, and as well to the south, to Silesia region, through Smigiel, Leszno to Wroclaw, so that small Poznan-suburban village can be visited on the way to all these places.
An interesting idea can be visiting all "green museum" of Greater Poland, subordinated to the one in Szreniawa:

The Flour-Milling Museum in Jaracz (40 km north of Poznan)
The Hunting Museum in Uzarzewo (15 km north-east of Poznan)
The Bee-Keeping Open-air Museum in Swarzedz (15 km east of Poznan)
The Willow and Hop Industry Museum in Nowy Tomysl (60 km west of Poznan)
The Meat Industry Museum in Sielinko (40 km west of Poznan)







This city travel guide to Szreniawa is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Szreniawa&oldid=4575281"