
Tada is a town on the Chennai-Nellore highway, just over 65 km from Chennai, India and 80 km from Tirupathi. It is in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh and is about 1.5 km north of the Andhra Pradesh border.


Get in[edit]
This place marks the border of Andhra Pradesh. Its nearest major railway station is Tada and Sullurpeta. NH-5 starts from Chennai to Kolkata, which passes through Tada. Pulicat Lake lies east to Tada.
Tada is well connected to Chennai via local trains and Mofussil buses that head to Chennai from Tirupathi and Nellore.
Trains from Chennai heading to Sullurpeta from Chennai Central pass via Tada. There is a train every two hours and the last train from Tada to Chennai leaves at 8:30PM.

Get around[edit]
See[edit]
The Tada Falls - Also known as Ubbalamadugu Falls, which is about 15 km from the Tada railway station is a major attraction. Since there are not many trek-worthy spots near Chennai, Tada falls has become a popular trekking spot for adventure enthusiasts from Chennai.  To reach the falls you had to take the road that goes west before the TADA town. And ask for the village Varadayyapalem. From here the falls would be nearly 5 km. On the road from NH5 to Varadayyapalem is the Kalki Oneness Temple.
The Oneness Temple - Kalki Oneness Temple, in the Golden City, Varadaiahpalem, Chittoor Dist. Andhra Pradesh, India: Just 3 km from small town Tada.
Do[edit]
Tada is a relatively little known tourist destination. It is known for its waterfall (locally known as Ubbalamadugu Falls), hillocks and greenery. It is ideal for hiking, trekking and picnics.

Work[edit]
Tada is at a walking distance from Sri City, a Planned Integrated Business City (Township) located 55 km North of Chennai on NH 5 along the border of Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Tamil Nadu (TN) States of India. Much of Sricity area is in Chittoor District and a smaller area along the NH5 is in Nellore District of AP, adjacent to Tiruvallur District of TN. 90+ top companies from around the globe are on board to set up shops at Sri City.
The Satish Dhawan Space Centre (aka SHAR), India's Satellite/Rocket launching centre is located at Sriharikota, on the eastern side of the Pulicat Lake which separates Sri City and the Satellite launching station.

Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
For better hotels the best locations to stay are at Srikalahasti or Varadaiahpalem town. Otherwise, Sullurpeta has very good AC and non-AC lodges.

13.5815780.03391 Bigstay Apartment Hotel, 104, Block-B, Bigsun City. 106 bedroom hotel. from Rs4000+ taxes. (updated Jul 2023)
 Hotel Rishi Gardens. Has nice food and also very good accommodation. 
 Senri Hotels and Residences. A clean, quiet and safe serviced apartments meant mainly for long-term business expats from Japan and Korea, but they offer daily and monthly stays for Indian tourists also. 
Go next[edit]







This city travel guide to Tada is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Tada&oldid=4698637"