

Beach in Tamchy
Tamchy (тамчы) is a small city in Kyrgyzstan. Tamchy is located in the Issyk Kul Province and is a wonderful place to experience the lake.


Get in[edit]
The easiest and cheapest way to get to Tamchy is by minibus. From Bishkek, a minibus should cost about 200 som per person. Another option is to take a private taxi, although this will be more expensive. Private taxis in Bishkek and Karakol can be found waiting outside the long-distance bus station (автовокзал) and it can cost about 1300 to 1500 som per car.

By plane[edit]
42.58833376.7133331 Tamchy Airport (IKU  IATA, Issyk Kul Airport), Tamchy. Tamchy has limited air service during the summer travel season from the nearby cities of Kyrgyzstan (Bishkek), Kazakhstan (Almaty), Uzbekistan (Tashkent), and even Russia (Novosibirsk).   (updated Nov 2018)
Get around[edit]
Tamchy skyline
Tamchy has no bus station, and upon arriving in Tamchy you will be dropped off on its largest street, Manas (Манас). Tamchy is a very small town and walking is the best way to get around. Streets go south from Manas towards the beach. 

See[edit]
Tamchy has one small mosque located on Manas St. A World War II Monument and a small local museum can be found between Junushaliev St. and Babash St.

Do[edit]
The main attraction here is the beach, where you can swim and walk around. You can also hike to the mountains to the north, or coordinate activities with the local CBT.

Buy[edit]
A brook in the desert above the village
Tamchy has one handicraft shop, on Babash St., and many B&Bs will offer you similar items.

Eat[edit]
A few cafes can be found near the beach offering Central Asian and Russian dishes. Notice that there are no open restaurants or cafes outside the summer season. Shashlik, lagman and plov are favorite dishes here. All menus are in Russian and there are very few vegetarian options. Vegetarians might want to try asking for dishes "bez myasa" (без мясо), "without meat". B&Bs can also make meals for about 200 som. 
For self-catering, a few shops can be found along Manas. Here you can buy bread, noodle dishes, drinks, cookies, sweets, etc. 

Drink[edit]
Along the beach is one disco serving drinks and playing music, and most cafes serve beer and vodka (summer only).

Sleep[edit]
Most of the houses in Tamchy seem to offer accommodation, with prices between 150-200 som per person per night. Look for signs that say "Комнаты", "rooms", or just ask around.
If you want to pay more, CBT has many B&Bs in Tamchy, though if approached directly you will save on the CBT commission.

 Valencia (eastern end of village). small hotel  run by Russian family. Smallest double, full board, pool, hot shower, European toilet and very well kept garden with altans. costs €10 per person a night (2009). 
A few metres further on there is Zlata Inn, also run by a Russian family, double, shower, pool, breakfast for €26 or 2070 som (2018) per room. ☏ +996 779 993 112, receptionist speaks fluent English. Restaurant.

Go next[edit]
To leave Tamchy, wait by the side of the main road and hail down cars. If you see a minibus stopping, ask where they are going and if they have room for you. Many minibuses pass through so this should be fairly easy to do. Cholpon-Ata is 45 km away, Karakol 180 km, Balychy 48 km and Bishkek is 220 km.







This city travel guide to Tamchy is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Tamchy&oldid=4268962"