
Tanjung is a beach town on the north west coast of the island of Lombok in Indonesia.


Understand[edit]
Looking toward Tanjung, viewed from the Gili islands, with Mt Rinjani in the background
Tanjung is a developing tourist destination on mainland Lombok. There are five resort-style hotels in the area including Lombok's most prestigious resort, The Oberoi Lombok at Medana Beach. The Kosaido Golf Club is located on the nearby Sire Peninsula. The Medana Bay Marina provides modern mooring and anchorage services to the area. Tanjung is also the administrative capital of the new North Lombok Regency and so the township has a growing regional administrative sector with offices and support services. There is also a traditional produce market and a small regional public transport hub in the town.

Orientation[edit]
Tanjung is traversed by a single two lane road that follows the west coast of the island from south of Ampenan and continues northward to circumnavigate Mount Rinjani in the north of Lombok and then traverses the greater part of the east coast toward the south.

Get in[edit]
Lombok International Airport, (LOP IATA) is south west of Praya in south central Lombok. This new international airport will provide facilities for wide bodied aircraft and more modern terminal facilities and cargo facilities. Please see the main Lombok article for more details on the new international airport and connecting services to the Tanjung area.
Metered taxis normally operate in the Tanjung area and service Bangsal, Sira, Medana, Senaru and other destinations throughout Lombok.
The established hotels and resorts of the Tanjung area may offer pick-up transfers to and from the airport. You will need to enquire at the hotels for this service and ensure you book ahead.
Some visitors travelling from nearby Bali prefer the option of taking a fast boat across from Bali direct to the Gili Islands, or to west coast tourism centre of Senggigi further to the south.
Travel agents or the operators can normally assist with any necessary transfers.
If you are frugal or intrepid and take the slow ferry from Bali, it's best to arrange transport in advance from the ferry dock at Lembar to Tanjung. Travel agents on Bali offer transport from any point in South Bali to Tanjung, including the ferry ticket.

Marina facilities[edit]
The newly established Marina at Medana Bay has 25 mooring buoys in more than 5m of water for 35-45ft vessels and anchorage space for another 20 vessels.
The marina facilities were established in 2009. Soon after opening the facility hosted over 90 yachts during the September 2009 Sail Indonesia event.

 Medana Bay Marina, Medana Bay, Tanjung, Lombok Utara (Location: 8° 21.83'S 116° 07.75'E, (Traditional system: 8°21'50'S 116°07'45'E), ☏ +62 370 6610037, fax: +62 370 633564, admin@wisatasamudera.com. 
In late July 2010 participants of Sail Indonesia – Sail Banda 2010 set sail from Darwin Sailing Club in northern Australia. After congregating in Labuhan Bajo on the western tip of Flores in early September 2010 they travelled on to Medana Bay on the north-western coast of Lombok prior to moving on to Bali and Kalimantan. Medana Bay was an official stop-over on the 2010 and 2011 itineraries and is expected to be included again in the coming events.[1][dead link]
The mooring basin is centred on 08°21.833’S and 116°07.750’E with an approach transit point almost due north at 08°20.432’S and 116°07.685’E.
A current Sea Chart and sea approach tracks are available on the Marina's website [2][dead link].
Medana Bay is sometimes called Teluk Dalam, meaning Deep Bay.
The Marina also provides on site accommodation services.

Get around[edit]
Map of Tanjung
By bemo[edit]
Bemos can be hailed down for short trips around the Tanjung area or further on to Bangsal and other destinations along the coast. Fares are inexpensive.
If travelling to Bangsal in a bemo, be aware that they do not call at Bangsal itself, but stop in nearby Pemenang, from where you can walk or ride a cidomo (horse cart) to Bangsal Harbour
Prices vary at times so try and watch what local customers are paying for a similar distance to your own and if really in doubt just include Rp 1,000-2,000 extra. If 'chartering' an empty Bemo to a particular destination, be careful to clarify the exact amount of payment required prior to getting on board. Bemos operate on the main coastal road, and at times may travel into some of the nearby kampungs and beach areas.
Many Bemo drivers are reluctant to venture further up the west coast than the northern end of Mangsit just north of Senggigi, as the passenger densities drop dramatically from there on. If you are travelling up the west coast from Ampenan or Senggigi toward Tangung the driver may want to turn back at some point if he does not have sufficient passengers.
Make sure you plan well for any trips around the area using public transport and ensure you have a means to contact a taxi service to return to your hotel should your travel plans become disrupted in the later hours of the afternoon or evening.
Bemos have normally stopped running by dusk on the west coast of Lombok.
Travel agents can also get you on semi-regular shuttle services, which connect Tanjung, the airport, and the harbours of Lembar (for Bali) and Bangsal (for the Gilis).

By taxi[edit]
Bluebird is the most common taxi available in the Tanjung area. Bluebird and white+coloured Express Taksi have a radio dispatch system and are equipped with meters which should be used by their drivers at all times. Although there are not normally a lot of taxis present this far north they do service this area. Taxis can be booked in advance either by calling them yourself or by booking through your hotel.

Bluebird *  Lombok Taksi, ☏ +62 370 627000. 24hr service. 
Express *  Express Taksi, ☏ +62 370 635968. 24hr service. 
By car[edit]
Expect to pay a daily rental rate of Rp 150,000-175,000 (low end mid-late 1980s Suzuki mini jeep-Jimmy) to Rp 400,000 for a Toyota Kijang or Izuzu Panther.
It may be better to rent a car further to the south (for example in Senggigi) as there is a wider range of services available there. Otherwise enquire at your hotel. A car and driver is a sensible option unless you are familiar with driving in the region. Please see the main Lombok article article for more detailed information on driving in Lombok.

By motorbike[edit]
To hire a motorbike, expect to pay around Rp 50,000 (early 2010) for most models and possibly more in peak season when demand for rentals can be very high. As with cars, it may be better to rent a bike further to the south. Otherwise enquire at your hotel. Please see the main Lombok article article for more detailed information on driving in Lombok and ensure you obtain and use a helmet when riding a motor bike.

By ojek[edit]
Prices are negotiable but a rule of thumb is Rp 5,000 Rupiah for a short trip with a local motorbike rider if the destination is nearby.

By horse cart[edit]
Horse-pulled carts, known as Cidomo, are very common in the Tanjung area. They are a good method of transportation for short distances e.g, from your hotel to the local market. Make sure to agree the price before the journey — Rp 10,000 is the maximum price to pay for a short journey.

By boat[edit]
Traditional fishing boats known as perahu ply the waters around Tanjung, and are instantly recognizable due to their outriggers: two lengths of extra large bamboo sealed at either end and attached to the hull by bars on both sides. As with a catamaran, these afford greater stability in heavy swells. They can also be chartered on the nearby beaches at Bangsal and Teluk Nare, either directly from owners (in which case some knowledge of Bahasa Indonesian or Bahasa Sasak will come in handy) or via a travel agent or local guide, who will of course take an often generous commission.
Speedboats and small charter vessels also link to Senggigi as an alternative to the road route. Speedboats also offer an alternative means of travel to the Gili islands. The majority of these are either based or land at Teluk Nare to the south of Bangsal and offer a more expensive alternative to the sometimes stressful process of chartering a traditional boat or using the public ferry from Bangsal. Speedboat charters are also available for sightseeing trips.

By bicycle[edit]
Traffic is relatively light and the Tangung area has quite level grades. Speeding trucks on Jalan Raya Tangung require special caution. Travel by bicycle is quite possible in this part of the island and provides a very different cultural experience to other means of transport. Please see Senggigi article for more detailed information.

See[edit]
-8.36652116.099871 Pantai Sira, Pundewa, jalan pantai sira, lombok. Sunset, many bar, food stalls along the beach. go more north for the more local and cheaper ones. Free. (updated Jun 2024)
-8.36032116.135992 Pantai Impos (from main road, take dirt road to rinjani beach eco resort). food stalls and small boats. Free. (updated Jun 2024)
-8.42443116.178733 Sekoah waterfall (From Tanjung, 10min flat road in bike, after 15-20min uphill (2-ways bike lanes but single lane if car). -8.42469116.1751 Unmarked path to waterfall from main road (opposite Warung Zherdy) with few crossings more or less clear on directions. -8.42525116.178162 Sekoah waterfall bike parking. Waterfall after mossy path and stairs (avoid if rainy or recent as likely slippery). Can swim a bit down waterfall (about 1.5m deep, not tested under waterfall). Water is transparent and seems clean. Surprisingly, no litter/garbage. Mosquitoes, have repellent. Limited space to rest or eat outside of few rocks.). car/bike required. parking Rp 5,000. (updated Jun 2024)
Popular excursions that can be done in a day trip include:

On the sea — take a boat across to the Gilli Islands for lunch or some snorkelling
Village — visits including weaving villages and other handicraft producers
Waterfalls — visits and walks around nearby Senaru
Do[edit]
Most of the tourism activities in Tanjung revolve around the resort areas at Sire beach and Medana, with diving, snorkelling, and hiking activities available. Tanjung is well situated for day trips to Mount Rinjani and Senaru, The Gilli Islands, and the north east coast. According to local legends two of the oldest villages on the island, Bayan and Sembalun, were founded by a prince of Majapahit. Both villages are readily accessible and are nearby to the Tanjung area.
Traditional therapeutic massages and spa treatments are available in the hotels and local traditional masseurs are available.
Fishing and boat charters are available to explore the area along this part of the west coast of Lombok.
Nearby golf courses are a popular destination for many visitors and local golfers. The Sire Peninsula in Tanjung has an international 18-hole championship course.

 Kosaido Golf Club (turn to the west off the main highway at Sire south of Tanjung township, follow the signposts on the Peninsular), ☏ +62 370 640137, fax: +62 370 64013, siregolf@mataram.wasantara.net.id. The course has views of Mt. Rinjani to the north east and the Gili Islands across the bay to the west. The course was designed by Peter Thompson, Michael Wolveridge & Perrett and pays respect to the natural on-site contours of the land. The 18-hole championship course offers a basic clubhouse facility and is promoted as having a unique, challenging and world-class experience for golfers of all levels. 
Participate in a local Sasak community program in the Tanjung area by joining a locally run volunteer program or visiting one of the locally initiated community development projects. Several options are available for visitors involving coral regeneration, land management and rehabilitation, and agricultural development programs. Or you can just join with a group of local people, help out and join in with what-ever they are doing during their day. Specific skills are not a requirement for participation. Some visitors choose to go and live in a native village and help the women working in the fields. English-language and skill-teaching programs are encouraged and involve stays of around 3 weeks minimum. Opportunities are available for very short visits through to longer stays with integration into a more specific program. For a stay to experience and work in a hill village, a few days would be sufficient as a minimum to have time to adjust and settle in.

 Sokong Community Action Program (SCAP) (Sokong Program Aksi Komunitas), Jl Raya Tanjung, Kampung Kencong, Sokong, Tanjung, Lombok Utara (turn off the main highway at Kencong), ☏ +6287865259656, bratainlombok@gmail.com. Accommodation can be provided including local transport and transfers to and from Lombok airport, hotels and the Gili islands if required. Single day trips can be organised to visit the programs or just to look around the local community and meet the local participants. (updated Aug 2016)
Buy[edit]
The Tanjung area is a quiet area, and tourism activity is restricted to the Medana peninsular and parts of Sire Beach.  There are not a lot of beach hawkers or tour guides touting for business on the beaches, other than at the nearby Bangsal area which serves as a departure and arrival point for much of the boat traffic going to and from the Gilli Islands.
There is a large public market area and many local shops in and about Tanjung selling local requirements from building supplies to food stuffs.

Eat[edit]
The hotels and resorts of the Tanjung area offer Western and Indonesian style cuisine with wine and drink service in a hotel or resort setting. There are few eating venues catering to international tourists in the Tanjung area other than within the larger established hotels and resorts of the area.  The more intrepid visitor may like to set forth and try some of the small local eating houses many of which are along the main highway passing through the Tanjung district. Otherwise a trip to Senggigi to the south may be required to access a wider range of venues catering to local and international tourists.

Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
The Tanjung area does not offer any mid-range accommodations, and the choice of budget are almost all on the Gili Islands, at Senaru on the slopes of Mount Rinjani or southward toward the Senggigi area.

Budget[edit]
 Homestay Brata Yuda (Rumah Brata Yuda), Kampung Kenconk, Sokong, Tanjung, Lombok Utara, ☏ +62 878 65536756, bratainlombok@gmail.com. This village homestay offers visitors an opportunity for a cultural and social immersion experience in a contemporary local Sasak kampung (village). The facilities are modest but sufficient and the hospitality is genuine and un-pretentious including home cooked meals and the opportunity to meet and interact with a local community in the Tanjung area. Trips to local rice fields, coffee, cocao and clove plantations can be arranged as well as the more predictable touristic sites. The hosts are heavily involved in local community based agricultural training and development programs and also offer opportunities for direct involvement in volunteer and community development programs if visitors are interested. People can just use the homestay if they require but the homestay's stand out feature is the opportunity to see more of the local community than most visitors normally do. If required a car or taxi can be arranged for transport to the location. Singles and small groups are welcome. For more adventurous guests trips and overnight stays can be provided to a nearby tradition mountain village, access is by motor bike and conditions are more basic, but still very welcoming. 1 person/Rp 200,000, 2 people Rp 300,000 per night includes a pick up at Bangsal pier by motorcycle. 3 meals per day per person is Rp 100,000 extra. 
Mid-range[edit]
 Marina at Medana Bay (please see the details in the Marina facilities section above). 
Splurge[edit]
 The Oberoi Lombok (Medana Beach), Jl. Medana, Tanjung, Lombok Utara (turn west at the Medana turnoff on the main coast road), ☏ +62 370 6138 444, fax: +62 370 6132 496, Gm.Toli@oberoihotels.com. Check-in: 14:00, check-out: 12:00. Lush vegetation, a very private beach, sparkling blue sea views and manicured hotel grounds create an intimate experience. The hotels accommodation is dotted throughout 24 acres of tropical gardens and has traditional thatched roofs with terraced pavilions. This is Lombok's premier resort hotel and an ideal hideaway due to its 'secluded' area. Check for discounts and promotions. US$345-1128. Rates are subject to 10% service charge and 11% government tax. 
-8.36111116.123331 The Lombok Lodge, Jl. Medana, Tanjung, Lombok Utara, ☏ +62 370 6622926, sales@thelomboklodge.com. Boutique beachside hotel opened in 2010 with 7 lodge-suites overlooking the north western coastline of Lombok. Quiet and secluded position, distinctive contemporary and stylish design, infinity pool overlooks the beach and sea. Suites equipped with A/C, 32” flat screen satellite TV, DVD player, Bose Sounddeck, itouch, electronic personal safe and Wi-Fi internet access. See promotions section on their website. Normal price, US$240, specials from US$160. 
 Hotel Tugu Lombok (Sire Beach), Jl. Sigar Penjalin, Sire Beach, Tanjung, Lombok Utara (follow the signs from the Sire Beach turn off on the main west coast road, the final approaches can be a little confusing on a first time visit), ☏ +62 370 620111, fax: +62 370 620444, lombok@tuguhotels.com. Neighboring the Tugu grounds is the 18-hole Kosaido Golf Club. The hotel is surrounded by traditional village houses and green fields. Tugu's land comprises approximately 6 hectares of palm plantations and has views of the sea and Mount Rinjani. The clear blue water of Sire beach in front of the hotel is ideal for swimming, snorkelling and diving. Some visitors may find the hotels design concept and layout unresolved. 
 Medana Resort, Jl Medana, Tanjung (turn west at the Medana turnoff on the main coast road), ☏ +62 370 6128000, +62 81 237 43099, fax: +62 370 6128100, medana@indo.net.id. Many of their staff come from the surrounding villages. Open air restaurant and bar with views of coconut palm trees and the sweeping bay toward the Gili's, quiet pretty area with views of distant Bali and Mount Agung lie across the sea to the west. double US$110 including tax, single US$99 including tax. 
 Rinjani Beach Eco Resort, Sokong, Karang Atas, Tanjung (turn west 2 km before Tanjung coming from the south on the main coast road), ☏ +62 878 6450 9148, +62 878 6450 9148, contact@lombok-adventures.com. The resort is behind the rice fields by the beach with a beautiful sun set view of Gunung Agung in Bali and a sun rise view of Gunung Rinjani. An open air restaurant faces the ocean. Beachside pool and a dive shop onsite. Tours to waterfalls, temples and traditional villages, biking and canoeing can be organised. Backpacker bungalow-double Rp 300,000, single Rp 250,000. Bamboo villa Rp 750,000, a villa by the beach is Rp 900,000, all rates include tax and breakfast. 
Private villas[edit]
Villas listed here are completely private individual properties with their own pool.  (The label 'Villa' is one of the mostly widely abused words in the Indonesia travel industry.)

 The Anandita, Sire Beach, Tangung (turn off the main road and head toward the golf course and Tugu hotel), ☏ +62 361 730 668. Private villa over 3 acres in size next to the Kosaido golf course and 5 minutes by boat from the Gili Islands. 27-m private swimming pool and a volleyball court and fronts directly on the beach. Located close to the Tugu and the Oberoi hotels, the villa includes 4 bedrooms, private pool and garden and has a full complement of 16 staff including chef, maids and security. Prices vary depending on season, and is for the entire villa. From US$625-1,395.. 
 Villa Sapi, Sire beach, Tangung (turn off the main road and head toward Sire beach), ☏ +62 361 737 498. 5 bedrooms, with a very contemporary design, 4 swimming pools, 2 bedroomed guesthouse, tennis court, comprehensive staff service and gourmet cuisine. Full beach frontage and near the Kosaido golf club and the Oberoi Hotel. From US$800. 
 Villa Sepoi Sepoi (at Sire Beach), Sire, Tangung (turn off the main road and head toward Sire beach), ☏ +62 361 730 668. 6-bedroom private villa has a 100-m private beach frontage and a full complement of staff including chef, maids and security. Expansive grounds and common areas surround a large private swimming pool with poolside bar/cabana.  A/C TV/family room and an open air living and dining room. The villa grounds are fronted by Sire beach with its white sand and crystal blue waters, it is suitable for families and large groups. The villa is only rented as a whole (6 bedrooms and exclusive use of the property and staff). US$655-1,375. 
 Sira Beach House, Sira Beach House (turn off at the road to Sire beach and the Golf course), enquiries@sirabeachhouse.com. Salt-water swimming pool plus tennis court. Villa backs onto the Kosaido golf course. Views across the sea to nearby Gilli Islands and Bali’s Mount Agung, contemporary decor, full facilities. sleeps 12-14 people in 6 double bedrooms. Rates include breakfast and all laundry. Extensive private grounds, beachfront location, suitable for families. US$89-1,395. 
Connect[edit]
Mobile phone towers ensure you're never out of touch. Telekomsel's Simpati SIM card has a reasonably good signal in the Tanjung area. XL Axiata and Indosat SIM cards also provide coverage in the area. Coverage can be unreliable and inconsistent.

Cope[edit]
Several hospitals are located in the main city of Mataram including the islands main public hospital Rumah Sakit Umun and also the Risa Hospital in Cakranegara near Mataram mall.

Please see the Lombok main article for a list of medical facilities available in Mataram.
Medical clinics[edit]
 Puskesmas Tanjung (Local health Clinic Tanjung township), Tanjung, ☏ +62 370 623010. This is a local municipal health clinic rather than an emergency centre, though it does have an UGD (Emergency room) of limited scope. 
Emergency service[edit]
 Ambulance, ☏ +62 370 622254, +62 370 623489,  118 (In emergency). 
The reality is that unless within the confines of the main city of Mataram/Ampenan/Cakranegara an ambulance is normally too far away to provide prompt transport in the case of a true emergency. Most often a taxi, police vehicle or a private car is used to get someone requiring urgent medical attention to a hospital. The ambulances in Lombok are more often used in the role of assisted patient transport rather than for first responder/paramedic supported emergency assistance and transport.
Go next[edit]
Much of Lombok can be accessed easily from the Tanjung area.

Take a boat to the Gili Islands for snorkeling or diving and partying on Gili Trawangan. The cheapest way to reach Gili Trawangan is on a public boat which departs from Bangsal from 08:00-17:00 (but rarely later than 16:00) for Rp 10,000. Charter boats can also be arranged or take a speedboat from Teluk Nare a little to the south of Bangsal. Cidomo horse carts hang around on the main road in Pemenang waiting to ferry visitors the short distance to the Bangsal beach landing point that cannot be accessed by taxis and bemos
Climb Mount Rinjani, an active volcano (access can be suspended for extended periods during the rainy season).
Visit Bayan and Sembalun.
Take a road trip to Tetebatu a small town about 2 km from the southern boundary of Mount Rinjani National Park. Traditional Sasak handicraft artisans are spread throughout the villages in this area. When in Tetebatu visit the nearby town of Kotaraja, the best known location in Lombok to witness traditional Sasak stick fighting.
Travel south down the scenic west coast highway past Bangsal, through Pemenang and the beaches of Teluk Nare, Nipah, Malimbu, Setangi, Klui, Mangsit, Senggigi and Batu Bolong, then on to Ampenan and the provincial city of Mataram.
Travel to the island of Bali by fast boat from the nearby Gili Islands, from the airport in Ampenan or travel further south down the west coast to the port of Lembar and take one of the larger vehicular ferries to Panangbai on the east coast of Bali.





This city travel guide to Tanjung is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Tanjung&oldid=4893560"