

Road to Hungerford, just out of Thargomindah
Thargomindah is a town in the southwest of Outback Queensland.  


Understand[edit]
Locally, the town is known as Thargo.  Standing in Thargomindah it is easy to see the grand vision of Australia's pioneers.  Where every corner of the continent would be settled, and the outback areas would flourish with rich sheep properties.  Thargomindah is remote today, yet was planned as a grand town in the 1870s.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
-27.986389143.8108331 Thargomindah Airport (XTG  IATA). Skytrans fly to Thargomindah twice weekly from Brisbane via Cunnamulla.   (updated Apr 2019)
By car[edit]
The town is accessible via sealed road from Cunnamulla via Eulo.  The sealed section is one lane wide in places, meaning that you must pull one wheel off onto the gravel to pass oncoming traffic.  From New South Wales via well formed but unsealed road from Bourke via Hungerford.

Get around[edit]
The town is fairly small, only a few blocks in each direction.  It is only 1 km walk from the Airport to the centre of town. 
Cars seem to be allowed everywhere.  Only the main road is sealed, and the other roads are indicated by street signs, but often it isn't really clear where the road ends and when the dirt begins.
There is no public transport in town.

See[edit]
 Bulloo River & Cobb and Co Crossing (By the road bridge). The new road bridge crosses the Bulloo the Eulo side of Thargo.  It is a short walk from the town centre.  The old Cobb and Co rock crossing crosses the river by the side of the road bridge. free. 
The Bore at the Hydro Plant
 Hydroelectric Plant (just north of the Airport). Thargomindah was the site of the third hydroelectric generator in the world, after London and Paris.  See the French, British, and Australian flags flying over the Artesian Bore Gardens.  The plant is operated at 4PM daily.  At other times you can still see the bore and the machinery. free. 
Do[edit]
 Walk. The town has three walks marked on the map you can pick up from the visitors information, the post office, or just about anywhere else in town.  The walk by the river is nice, and the walk out past the new town bore to the Artesian park is interesting. 
Buy[edit]
 Bulloo Built. Timber products and souvenirs "Bulloo Built" are available at the Post Office, Visitors Centre, and the pub. 
 Supplies. Supplies are available at the general store, and the fuel station.  Two fuel stations are available. 
Eat[edit]
 Petrol Station. It has a wide selection of fast food, sandwiches, ice-creams available all day, as well as supplies. It has an inside and outside eating area. 
 Bulloo River Hotel, ☏ +61 7 4655-3125. The pub serves meals.  The schnitzel the size of your plate in the shape of Australia. $15-20 mains. 
Drink[edit]
 Bulloo River Hotel, ☏ +61 7 4655-3125. 
Sleep[edit]
There are a few accommodation choices in Thargo.  If there is a local event, like a wedding, it is possible for all the accommodation in town to be booked out. Check with the place you are intending to stay, and they will tell you if there is going to be room without the need to make a confirmed booking.

 Bulloo River Hotel Motel, ☏ +61 7 4655-3125. Friendly staff basic but nice pub accommodation. 
 Oasis Hotel Motel, Dowling Street, ☏ +61 46553155. 10 rooms, with double and single beds catering to singles, couples and families passing through or staying for work. 
 camping on the Bulloo river. you can camp for free on the Bullo river at the edge of the town on the road to Cunnamulla. Its set up for camping but there are no facilities . The main toilets in town are brand new as at 2024. (updated Jun 2024)
Connect[edit]
There are two payphones in town, one outside the Post Office.  The post office is open M-F, and Saturday mornings until 11AM.

Go next[edit]
If you keep going west, who knows where you might end up, the road just keeps going.  Back east, to Eulo and the Currawinya National Park, and the relative civilisation of Cunnamulla.






This city travel guide to Thargomindah is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Thargomindah&oldid=4893660"