

Tokyo Disney Resort
Tokyo Disney Resort (Japanese: 東京ディズニーリゾート) in Chiba, Urayasu, was the first Disney theme park resort to open outside of the United States. It is the second most annually-visited theme park complex in the world, behind Walt Disney World. It is noteworthy that it is not owned by Disney but by the Oriental Land Co., Ltd.


Understand[edit]
"To all who come to this happy place, welcome. Here you will discover enchanted lands of fantasy and adventure, yesterday and tomorrow. May Tokyo Disneyland be an eternal source of joy, laughter, inspiration, and imagination to the peoples of the world. And may this magical kingdom be an enduring symbol of the spirit of cooperation and friendship between the great nations of Japan and the United States of America."  — E. Cardon Walker, 15 April 1983
"Welcome one and all to a world where imagination and adventure set sail. Tokyo DisneySea is dedicated to the spirit of exploration that lives in each of us. Here we chart a course for adventure, romance, discovery and fun, and journey to exotic and fanciful ports of call. May Tokyo DisneySea inspire the hearts and minds of all of us who share the water planet, Earth."  — Michael Eisner, 4 September 2001
Fans posing at the entrance
Tokyo Disney Resort consists of two theme parks. Tokyo Disneyland (東京ディズニーランド), a "Magic Kingdom" park just like all the others, was the first Disney theme park to be built on non-U.S. territory. The park opened in April 1983 (but had been finished for a few months and the company waited for better weather) and was an instant success. Tokyo Disneyland's sister park Tokyo DisneySea (東京ディズニーシー), which opened in September 2001, is an ocean-themed park exclusive to Japan. With 17.3 million visits in 2014, Tokyo Disneyland is the second most visited theme park in the world behind Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom; DisneySea follows in fourth place with 14.1 million visits.
Tokyo Disney Resort also includes the Ikspiari (イクスピアリ) shopping and entertainment complex.
Tokyo Disney Resort is something different from all the other Disney parks. People are friendly, but you are reminded that you are in the largest city on Earth as it is very crowded and you can expect huge queues even for the smallest attraction on a normal day.
This is no Walt Disney World; in other words, it is small and can be easily tackled in about two or three days, maybe more. Still, whatever effort you place into coming here is well worth it if you like Disney stuff.

Talk[edit]
Japanese is the primary language spoken here. However, assistance for English speakers is also widely available, because of the presence of American and other foreign cast members. Chinese and Korean are also spoken to a lesser extent. Still, English is not very widely spoken in Japan, even here.
Do not expect all cast members (ride attendants) to speak English.  Most communication when getting on and off rides is done by sign language, which seems to be standard across all attractions.
Maps are available in Japanese, English, Korean, and Chinese. (The English map will work fine.) All the maps are fine, however the Japanese maps are a little more informative. They include highlights on some of the special events going on in the park, including special food menus and merchandise, most of which can be had for only a limited amount of time.
They also sort the restaurants, shops and shows into different categories. If you know katakana, hiragana, and a little bit of kanji, this might also be a helpful resource. Nearly any park attendant should have maps available if you lose your map or forget to pick one up.
Some rides like the Jungle Cruise are rendered almost meaningless to non-Japanese speakers. You can try and laugh along to avoid embarrassment if you like. Some other attractions, like MicroAdventure! (known as "Honey, I Shrunk The Audience" at Disney's American parks) have English translations with headphones in the back row: make sure you get to the front of the queue or you may miss out on yours.
Special stage shows may be entirely in Japanese, entirely in English, or in a mixture of both. It is difficult to ascertain what language a show will be in or whether translations are provided before you get to see it. Signs in English outside a show are no guarantee that it will be in English or that translations will be provided.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
Many international visitors would probably land at Narita International Airport (NRT IATA). If you have a Mickey Mouse urge right upon landing, there are buses operated by Airport Limousine, albeit infrequent, that will bring you to Tokyo Disney Resort in 60-90 min at a cost of ¥2400 (children ¥1200). The alternative by rail is to take the Narita Express to Tokyo and transfer to the JR Keiyo Line. The ride takes 90–100 minutes and costs ¥2570 or can be boarded free with the Japan Rail Pass. The cheapest way is to take the Keisei Narita Sky Access to Higashi Matsudo, then transfer to JR Musashino Line and alight at Maihama. The total journey time is about 70 minutes and costs about ¥1250.
Tokyo International Airport (HND IATA), also known as Haneda Airport, is the closest airport to Tokyo Disney Resort and mainly serves domestic flights, but is accepting a growing number of international flights from all over the world. There are more buses [1], also operated by Airport Limousine, that run to the resort 3 to 5 times per hour. The one-way cost is ¥810 (children ¥405) and the ride takes 50-70 min.
The rail alternative from Haneda is cheaper than the bus, but you will need to take three trains: Keikyu Express Line (from Haneda Airport to Shinagawa) or the Tokyo Monorail (from Haneda Airport to Hamamatsucho), JR Yamanote Line (from Shinagawa/Hamamatsucho to Tokyo), and finally JR Keiyo Line (from Tokyo to Maihama). This costs ¥690 via Keikyu, or ¥760 via the Tokyo Monorail, and will take about 1 hour.

By train[edit]
Map of JR East Railway Lines in Greater Tokyo [2]
As with virtually all of the rest of Japan, the most practical way of getting to Tokyo Disney Resort is by train. Tokyo Station is the western terminus of the JR Keiyo Line, and Maihama (舞浜), which is adjacent to the park, is the sixth stop east. The ride costs ¥210 and takes about 15 min on an express train.
As you exit JR Maihama Station,  the Tokyo Disney Resort Welcome Center is immediately to your left. If you will be staying at one of the Disney Hotels or the Tokyo Disney Resort Official Hotels (see Sleep below), this is where you check in, and your luggage will be shipped straight to your room for free while you enjoy the parks. The Welcome Center is also the place to purchase park tickets, the Resort Gateway Station of the Disney Resort Line monorail (see Get around below) is above the center, and the entrance to Ikspiari is nearby.

By car[edit]
From the Tokyo/Yokohama region, follow the coast of Tokyo Bay to Chiba, exit at the Urayasu ramp and then go out at Route 357, go straight on the road about 1 km, and make a U-turn at Mihama Rittai Road (美浜立体道路). There are signs in both Japanese and English from the freeway and surrounding roads.
Tokyo Disney Resort has ample parking spaces, but be forewarned that parking fees are astronomical. If you want more information about the car park and the circumstances of the surrounding streets, you can contact the Tokyo Disney Resort information line at 81-45-683-3011.
Parking at the two theme parks is ¥2,000 for passenger cars, ¥4,500 for buses, and ¥500 for motorcycles.
Parking at Ikspiari is ¥500 for the first hour and ¥250 for every additional half-hour. A purchase of ¥1,500 or more at one Ikspiari shop/restaurant will give one hour of free parking (up to 6 hours with total purchases of ¥30,000); seeing a movie at AMC Ikspiari will give three hours of free parking.
The three Disney Hotels charge a per-night fee for the use of their parking facilities, costing ¥2,000 for the first night and ¥2,000 for every additional night.

By bus[edit]
Most visitors will have little reason to travel to Tokyo Disney Resort by bus, due to the more convenient JR Keiyo Line. However, some hotels around Tokyo Disney Resort have free transportation service to the resort.
Long-distance bus services come here from all over Japan, but the Shinkansen is much easier to use by non-native speakers of Japanese or persons who do not understand the language and also much faster.

Tickets[edit]
Ticket prices seem decent by Japanese standards, but visiting Tokyo Disney Resort is really about as equally expensive as visiting any of the other Disney theme parks around the world. Children aged 3 and under are admitted free.

1-Day Passport: You can enter Tokyo Disneyland or Tokyo DisneySea all day long with this ticket but not both.
Adult (18+) ¥6,200
Junior (12-17) ¥5,300
Child (4-11) ¥4,100
Senior (60+) ¥5,500
Multi Day Passport: You can enter one park on the first day, the other park on the second day, and then you may move between the two parks (called "park-hopping") on subsequent days. If you find that you need to upgrade your ticket, you can do so simply by paying the difference; this may be done at the Welcome Center, the park ticket windows, or the hotels. These are perhaps the most economical value possible, as the price per day actually decreases with each day.

Multi-Day Passport Prices


Days

Child (4-11)

Junior (12-17)

Adult (18+)


Total
Per Day

Total
Per Day

Total
Per Day


2
¥7,400
¥3,700
¥9,400
¥4,700
¥10,700
¥5,350


3
¥9,500
¥3,167
¥12,300
¥4,100
¥13,800
¥4,600


4
¥11,200
¥2,800
¥14,400
¥3,600
¥16,000
¥4,000

Starlight Passport: You can use this ticket in one of the two parks from 15:00 on Saturdays, Sundays, and National Holidays.
Adult (18+) ¥4,900
Junior (12-17) ¥4,300
Child (4-11) ¥3,400
After 6 Passport: You can use this ticket in one of the two parks from 18:00 on weekdays. It is sold from 17:00 for ¥3300 (all ages).
Get around[edit]
Map of the Tokyo Disney Resort
35°37′58″N 139°52′49″EMap of Tokyo Disney Resort
A car is not required for get around the Tokyo Disney Resort. The resort has a well-developed transit system of buses and monorails. As with the rest of Japan, expect the transportation to be punctual.

By monorail[edit]
Disney Resort Line
The four-station Disney Resort Line monorail, with its spacious interiors and Mickey Mouse-shaped windows and pull straps, travels in a counterclockwise circle around the two theme parks. The stops are, in order, Resort Gateway Station (between JR Maihama Station and Ikspiari), Tokyo Disneyland, Bayside Station (gateway to the Tokyo Disney Resort Official Hotels), and Tokyo DisneySea.
The fares are listed in the chart below; children age 5 and under ride free. Suica and PASMO farecards can also be used.


Disney Resort Line Fares


Ticket type
Ages 12+
Ages 6–11


Single ride
¥250
¥130


1 day pass
¥650
¥330


2 day pass
¥800
¥400


3 day pass
¥1,100
¥550


4 day pass
¥1,400
¥700


11 single ride tickets
¥2,500
¥1,300


By foot[edit]
If you are going straight to the parks from Maihama Station, it is probably easier and faster (and best of all, free) to just walk from the station. There is an elevated walkway, about 1,090 ft (330 m) long, linking the station with the Tokyo Disneyland entrance. To get to Tokyo DisneySea, it is about a fifteen minute walk in the opposite direction. Simply walk along the wide tree-lined footpath in front of Ikspiari, then turn right and follow the monorail line after you pass under it, and enter via the pedestrian entrance to the bus dropoff area.

By bus[edit]
The Disney Resort Cruiser is a free bus service.

From Bayside Station on the Disney Resort Line, service is to the each of the six Tokyo Disney Resort Official Hotels.
From Disney Ambassador Hotel, service is to both theme parks.
See and do[edit]




Do you know the story of Captain Hook?
If you meet Captain Hook, try to say "tick" towards his back. Then, Captain Hook will run away in fear. In the Peter Pan movie, Hook was nearly eaten by a crocodile, but the crocodile ended up eating an alarm clock instead. So when Hook hears the "tick" sound, he is afraid the crocodile is near.


Tokyo Disney Resort is mostly for doing, not seeing. But of course, you can see the same Disney characters, castle, mountains, and live performances like at other Disney Parks. The seaside does make this park a bit different from the others. And, the people-watching is great.
If you can, it is a good idea to get a map ahead of time and plan out what rides and attractions you would like to get to first. Like any other large amusement park, Tokyo Disney Resort can be quite crowded. Even on weekdays, there can be a large number of people in the park and if you want to maximize your experience, it's best to have at least an idea of what you would like to do before you get there.  It may even get you on one or two more attractions. If a physical map cannot be had ahead of time, the park website is just as good, if not better.

The parks[edit]
The two theme parks, Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea, complement each other. The two major symbols, Cinderella Castle at Disneyland and Mount Prometheus at DisneySea, are exactly the same height, and from Ikspiari you can see them both.
Before you reach the ticket counters, your bag will be inspected by a clerk, but you do not need to show ID. Generally, the check is very brief and not at all thorough. At the ticket counter, you will not need to show ID either. While not everyone speaks English fluently, most employees understand enough to get you the basics. You will receive a receipt, your passport (ticket) and a map.
Tokyo Disney Resort uses a time-saving tool called FastPass, available only for the most popular rides. Simply insert your ticket into a machine at the ride, and you'll get a FastPass ticket with a return time printed on it. If you return to the ride during the time on the FastPass (usually a time frame of an hour), you will have a shorter wait for the ride. You can have only one FastPass at a time, you can't FastPass another ride until two hours after you received your last FastPass. It's a good idea to always get your next FastPass when it becomes available. If you wish to use FastPass, you need to do so as early as possible. Even on regular working days most attractions have given away all FastPasses for the day around noon. They cover the machines afterward and then you will have no choice but to stand in the long lines.
Visit the Screening Room [dead link] on Tokyo Disney Resort's website for a collection of short videos showing all of the attractions in both parks.

Tokyo Disneyland[edit]
Tokyo Disneyland main entrance
Tokyo Disneyland [dead link] is a "Magic Kingdom" park just like all the others. Fans of Walt Disney World Resort's Magic Kingdom may be a little bit disappointed, as the layout is nearly identical, right down to Cinderella Castle.
The seven theme lands of Tokyo Disneyland are, starting from the main entrance and going clockwise around Cinderella Castle, World Bazaar (it's known as Main Street, USA everywhere else; and this version is covered by a Victorian-style iron-and-glass canopy), Adventureland, Westernland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Toontown, and Tomorrowland. With just a solitary exception, the attractions are essentially the same as those found everywhere else.

 Western River Railroad (Adventureland). Tokyo Disneyland's railroad makes a sightseeing trip around Adventureland, Westernland, and Critter Country. It cannot be used to travel from one area of the park to another. 
 The Castle. Cinderella Castle at the center of Disneyland is icon and dominating feature of the resort. This is a 51-meter-tall fairy tale castle. While the cynic will notice the stark plastic construction, the castle's fascination cannot be denied by anybody who grew up with Disney style comics. (updated Apr 2017)
Tokyo DisneySea[edit]
Mount Prometheus, Tokyo DisneySea
Tokyo DisneySea [dead link], which opened in 2001, is an ocean-themed park exclusive to Japan. Like Tokyo Disneyland, it is arranged in a circle around a central landmark, in this case Mount Prometheus, an artificial volcano that "erupts" intermittently. There are a couple of rides that have a water spray, but you shouldn't expect to get too wet.
Starting from the main entrance and going clockwise around Mount Prometheus, the seven theme "ports of call" are Mediterranean Harbor (a reproduction of Venice), American Waterfront (a reproduction of the Eastern Seaboard of the United States), Port Discovery (a science-themed area), Lost River Delta (a reproduction of a tropical rain forest), Arabian Coast (based on Disney's Aladdin), Mermaid Lagoon (based on Disney's The Little Mermaid) and Mysterious Island (based on the books of Jules Verne).
Aside from the Tower of Terror (which can also be found at Disney's Hollywood Studios, Disney's California Adventure, and Walt Disney Studios Paris) in American Waterfront and the Indiana Jones Adventure (which can also be found at the original Disneyland in California) in Lost River Delta, all of the attractions in DisneySea are unique to Japan.

Buy[edit]




Save money while shopping
Be sure to compare prices between different stores when shopping for souvenirs - it may be possible to find a more reasonably priced similar item in a different area. Obviously the cheapest option is looking for Japanese Disney products on the Internet or in shops in Tokyo or other Japanese cities.


Tokyo Disney Resort is a Disney merchandise fan's paradise. Of course, there are plenty of gift shops found within the two parks, but additional selections may be found in Ikspiari and the nearby Bon Voyage store.
The World Bazaar, Tokyo Disneyland's entrance area, is anchored by the Grand Emporium, which can be seen to your right immediately after you have entered the park. This is the largest store in the park with over 3,000 different types of merchandise.
The largest store in Tokyo DisneySea is Emporio which anchors Mediterranean Harbor. Other notable shops are McDuck's Department Store in American Waterfront; and The Sleepy Whale Shoppe, Mermaid Treasures, and Kiss de Girl Fashions, three interconnecting shops in Mermaid Lagoon.
Ikspiari, pronounced like "experience" without the last syllable, is Japan's answer to Walt Disney World's Downtown Disney, with more than 140 stores and restaurants, and a 16-screen movie theatre. It's no surprise that there is a Disney Store here, by the way.
Bon Voyage, shaped like a giant suitcase and hatbox and conveniently located on the elevated walkway linking JR Maihama Station with Tokyo Disneyland's entrance, is the answer to the World of Disney stores in Florida and California, which essentially are Disney Stores on steroids. Inside, you'll find the grandest selection of Disney merchandise available under one roof anywhere in Japan.
Major credit cards are accepted nearly everywhere. Remember that American cards can only be charged once for a purchase, meaning that a ¥10,000 purchase will be charged once, instead of ¥5,000 now and ¥5,000 next month. (Without this, Japanese cards act like charge cards where the purchase has to be completely paid off the next month) Employees will ask you (sometimes) if you want to be charged once. Say yes and the transaction will go smoothly, but say no and you will double your time at the counter.
If you haven't brought enough money, there is one bank branch with ATMs near the entrance of Disneyland and one set of unstaffed ATMs near the entrance of DisneySea. The branch with ATMs near the World Bazaar at Disneyland take foreign cards and can do withdrawals in multiples of ¥10,000, for a fee of ¥110 to withdraw ¥10,000 or ¥220 to withdraw ¥20,000 or more (ATM limit ¥100,000 per withdrawal, check with your bank as they may have a lower limit). In addition, they can exchange foreign currency, up to ¥50,000 per person. At Ikspiari, there is an international ATM on level 2F near "Local Motion".

Eat[edit]




Land of the rising popcorn
Popcorn is a treat here! In addition to the traditional salted popcorn, visitors can enjoy a myriad of flavored popcorn. They include Curry Popcorn, Hunny (Honey) Popcorn, Chocolate Popcorn, Strawberry Popcorn, Butter Soy Popcorn, Black Pepper Popcorn, and Caramel Popcorn. A box usually runs for ¥300 and a commemorative refillable (for a small fee) bucket runs at anywhere between ¥1400-2000. The flavors may also reflect the area of the park you are in. For example, Hunny Popcorn can be enjoyed near the Winnie the Pooh attraction and Curry Popcorn can be found in Adventureland.


You will have no trouble finding food at Tokyo Disney Resort. There are many places to eat throughout the two parks and Ikspiari, and all are listed on the maps. However, the food descriptions are either not 100% accurate or there is something lost in the translation. Also, understand that portion sizes are different in Japan so a large drink that you ordered may look like a small to you.  This combined with the increase in cost normally expected at an amusement park may hit your pocket book harder than expected.
If you are arriving by car/bus you may consider having a cooler in the car and having a picnic.  If you decide to eat in the park, scout out the restaurants before you intend on eating. This will give you a better idea of their menus and the fastest way to get there when it is time to eat.





Save money while dining

Expect food and drinks to be a bit more expensive and smaller than you would expect to find in other areas of Japan. Food starts at around ¥500 for a snack, while 500 milliliters of bottled water is around ¥200.
While bringing food into the parks is forbidden for most, bag checks are lax and more focused on weapons. Since the lockers are placed after the checks, if your food is found, you can simply state you will leave it outside the park and eat it in the designated picnic area in front of the entrance. (However, if you have a dietary restriction, you can declare this if found, and you will be permitted to bring your own food; no documentation is required.) If you wish to follow the rules to the letter, this is also a sensible option as re-entry to the park is permitted during the day and you can simply leave the park for lunch and dinner. However, the lockers start at ¥300 paid each time they are closed.
There are many water fountains located in the parks, usually away from snack booths and main walkways. If you bring or buy a bottle, you can refill during the day whenever you happen to pass one.






Dining options for vegetarians and vegans
There is only one restaurant offering dedicated menus for vegetarians in Disneyland, but three in DisneySea.  Keep in mind that this is vegetarian, not strict vegan, so the meals might include egg, milk, or other animal-derived ingredients. Be sure to check with the waiter or waitress before ordering. Restaurants with vegetarian menus are Eastside Cafe (World Bazaar) in Tokyo Disneyland, and Ristorante di Canaletto, Zambini Brothers' Ristorante (both in Mediterranean Harbor) and Casbah Food Court (Arabian Coast) in Tokyo DisneySea. For strict vegans, both parks do permit you to bring your own food, and a list of restaurants with microwaves where you can heat what you have brought can be found here: https://www.tokyodisneyresort.jp/en/tdr/bfree/food.html


In the parks[edit]
Tokyo Disneyland Restaurants [3] [dead link]
Tokyo DisneySea Restaurants [4] [dead link]
Most dining opportunities in the two theme parks are counter service restaurants, most of which serve Western, Japanese, or Chinese cuisine. If you really want to save cash, though, your best bet may be to stick to the many snack carts scattered all throughout the parks.
Table service restaurants are also found in the parks but are far less common than counter service restaurants. The finest in-park table service can perhaps be found on board the SS Columbia, the fake ocean liner in Tokyo DisneySea's American Waterfront.
The Crystal Palace, on the World Bazaar/Adventureland walkway, is the only buffet in Tokyo Disneyland. Its Tokyo DisneySea counterpart is the Sailing Day Buffet, located in the "cargo terminal" adjacent to the SS Columbia.
Tokyo Disneyland has one buffeteria (Queen of Hearts Banquet Hall in Fantasyland), and Tokyo DisneySea has three (Cafe Portofino in Mediterranean Harbor, Horizon Bay in Port Discovery, and Vulcania in Mysterious Island).

Priority Seating[edit]
Tokyo Disney Resort's restaurants do not accept reservations per se. A Priority Seating booking is essentially a restaurant FastPass. When you make a Priority Seating booking, you will receive a designated time to return to the restaurant, and you will then be seated with a minimal wait. Waiting times may vary, especially during peak periods.
Priority Seating bookings will be held for no more than 15 min past your designated time frame for a restaurant in either of the two theme parks and no more than 10 min for a restaurant in any one of the three Disney Hotels. Also, capacity is limited and bookings tend to fill up early, and that there may be times when Priority Seating bookings are not available.
Priority Seating can be booked in person at each applied restaurant, or through the Tokyo Disney Resort Reservation Center at +81-45-683-3333. If you know how to read Japanese, you can also make Priority Seating reservations online using the resort's Japanese website.
Priority Seating is accepted at the following in-park restaurants:

Tokyo Disneyland[edit]
Blue Bayou Restaurant (Adventureland)
Eastside Cafe (World Bazaar)
Restaurant Hokusai (World Bazaar)
Tokyo DisneySea[edit]
Magellan's (Mediterranean Harbor)
Restaurant Sakura (American Waterfront)
Ristorante di Canaletto (Mediterranean Harbor)
Sailing Day Buffet (American Waterfront)
SS Columbia Dining Room (American Waterfront)
At Ikspiari[edit]
Ikspiari has a broad range of dining options, one of which is Japan's only Rainforest Cafe.

Drink[edit]
Most drinks are soft drinks. Coca-Cola and Kirin sponsor attractions, and are the main soft drinks to be found. Mets (Kirin's "diet" brand) beverages may also be available.
Alcoholic beverages are available at 16 restaurants in Tokyo DisneySea. [5] [dead link] Under Japanese law, persons under 20 and those who plan to drive a car are prohibited from consuming alcohol.

Sleep[edit]
Tokyo Disney Resort's combined reservations number is +81-045-683-3333, and is open 09:00-21:00.
Online reservations and contact information are available at official websites.

Within the resort[edit]
There are nine hotels within the resort, all rather expensive.

Disney Hotels[edit]
35.633139.8881 Disney Ambassador Hotel (adjacent to Ikspiari). Check-in: 15:00, check-out: 12:00. This hotel is themed to the Art Deco era of the 1930s. ¥28,000-300,000.   
35.636861139.878252 Tokyo Disneyland Hotel (outside the Tokyo Disneyland entrance). Check-in: 15:00, check-out: 12:00. An opulent Victorian-style hotel with the best view of Tokyo Disneyland on the side. ¥33,000-500,000.   
35.627139.8883 Tokyo DisneySea Hotel MiraCosta (within the Mediterranean Harbor area of Tokyo DisneySea). Check-in: 15:00, check-out: 12:00. An Italian-style hotel complete with rooms overlooking Mediterranean Harbor. ¥33,000-500,000.   
Official hotels[edit]
These hotels are accessed by taking the free Disney Resort Cruiser bus service from Bayside Station on the Disney Resort Line monorail (see Get around above).

35.627214139.8734324 Hilton Tokyo Bay, 1-8 Maihama Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-47-355-5000, fax: +81-47-355-5019. Check-in: 15:00, check-out: 12:00n.  
35.626111139.8760835 Hotel Okura Tokyo Bay, 1-8 Maihama Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-47-355-3333, fax: +81-47-355-3366. Check-in: 15:00, check-out: 12:00.  
35.626145139.8754626 Sheraton Grande Tokyo Bay Hotel, 1-9 Maihama Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-47-355-5555. Check-in: 15:00, check-out: 12:00. 802 spacious guest rooms each with own balcony. A nice hotel overall.  
35.631683139.8737837 Tokyo Bay Maihama Hotel First Resort (formerly Sunroute Plaza Tokyo), 1-6 Maihama Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-47-355-1111.  
35.630721139.8738758 Tokyo Bay Maihama Hotel, 1-34 Maihama Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-47-355-1222, fax: +81-47-355-6777.  
Outside the resort[edit]
Because of the excellent connection to Tokyo Station, you do not necessarily need to stay in an on-site hotel. Cheaper accommodations off-site do exist, and arriving at the park when it opens is still easily possible.

Partner hotels[edit]
The Tokyo Disney Resort Partner Hotels Program is made up of five hotels located in the Shin-Urayasu area right next to the resort. All of these hotels are located within 1–2 km of JR Shin-Urayasu Station, from which Maihama is the first stop in the direction of Tokyo Station. For some it may be easier to get the complimentary shuttle service that runs frequently to and from the Disneyland park entrance.

35.647226139.9197329 Hotel Emion Tokyo Bay (ホテル エミオン 東京ベイ), 1-1-1 Hinode Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-047-304-2727. 
35.636214139.92425810 Mitsui Garden Hotel Prana Tokyo Bay (三井ガーデンホテル プラナ東京ベイ), Akemi 6-2-1, ☏ +81-047-382-3331. 
35.650845139.91276611 Oriental Hotel Tokyo Bay (オリエンタルホテル東京ベイ), 1-8-2 Mihama, ☏ +81-047-350-8111. 
 Palm & Fountain Terrace Hotel, 7-1-1 Meikai Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-047-353-1234. 
35.650008139.91158612 Urayasu Brighton Hotel Tokyo Bay, 1-9 Mihama Urayasu-shi, ☏ +81-047-355-7777.  
Good Neighbor Hotels[edit]
There are 15 designated Good Neighbor Hotels  around Tokyo and Chiba that offer free shuttle bus transfers to and from Tokyo Disney Resort.

Go next[edit]




I can go the distance
Fans of Disney's American parks who also visit Universal's parks on side trips may be disappointed to know that Universal Studios Japan [formerly dead link]  is in Osaka, some 250 mi (400 km) west of Tokyo.
However, a side trip to Universal Studios Japan from Tokyo Disney Resort is still possible. All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines provide frequent service, lasting about 1 hour and using widebody aircraft, from Haneda Airport to Osaka's Itami Airport. There is direct bus service from the airport to Universal [6] [formerly dead link] , costing ¥900 (children ¥450).
Alternatively, a trip from Tokyo to Osaka via the Shinkansen takes 2.5-3 hr. One-way fare is ¥14,050 via Nozomi or free via Hikari with the Japan Rail Pass. Alternatively, with some knowledge of Japanese or Google Translate and some planning ahead (these must be booked three days in advance) one can book a discounted same-day return fare on the Nozomi with JR Tours for as low as ¥21,000 (resulting in an effective fare of ¥9,500 each way). You can pay online and pick up your tickets at the JR Tours office (NOT the normal Shinkansen ticket counter) in Tokyo Station any time between booking and departure.


Kasai Rinkai Koen (Sea Life Park) [7][dead link] is the first stop from Maihama in the direction of Tokyo Station. Essentially, this is Japan's answer to SeaWorld with an aquarium and a Ferris wheel. The ferris wheel is the biggest in Japan (117 m/385 ft).
Makuhari Messe Messe is the German word for "trade fair", and that is just what to expect at this international convention center. You can get here from JR Kaihin-Makuhari Station, which is the sixth stop from Maihama in the direction of Soga Station.
Sanrio Puroland An indoor theme park centered around Hello Kitty and her friendsand a must for little princesses. You will need to take three trains to get here from Tokyo Station: JR Chuo Line (from Tokyo to Shinjuku), Keio Main Line (from Shinjuku to Chofu), and finally Keio Sagamihara Line (from Chofu to Keio Tama Center). It costs ¥710, including the trip from Maihama to Tokyo, and takes about 180 min.


Routes through Tokyo Disney Resort




Tokyo ← Kasai Rinkai Koen ←

 W  E 

→ Kaihin Makuhari → Chiba Minato


Yokohama ← Haneda Airport ← Daiba ←

 S  E 

→ Chidoricho → into  → Wangan Chiba


Daiba ← Kasai ←

 S  E 

→ Ichikawa → Funabashi → Chiba



See also[edit]
Universal Studios Japan
LEGOLand Japan
Walt Disney World in Florida.
The original Disneyland in California.
Disneyland Resort Paris.
Hong Kong Disneyland.








This city travel guide to Tokyo Disney Resort is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.








Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Tokyo_Disney_Resort&oldid=4821300"