
1770/Agnes Water is a beachside destination near Gladstone in the Capricornia region of Queensland.


Understand[edit]
The Town of 1770 was named in honour of Captain Cook's landing on 23 May 1770, his second on the Australian continent (and the first inside what is now Queensland), after his first landing in Botany Bay in present day Sydney.  Today it is a small town facing Bustard Bay and Captain Cook's landing spot.  There is an extensive camping area on the site, set on a waveless beach.  It is used mainly for boating and fishing, and there is a small swimming area.  There is a coffee shop and a pub with views across the bay.
The town of Agnes Water is around 8 km away, with a beautiful ocean beach. The town is a little more upmarket than 1770, with many new apartment and accommodation developments close to the town and the water.  Somewhat curiously, much of the accommodation actually in Agnes Water advertises itself as being 1770, despite the fact that you will pay a premium to stay in Agnes Water.  The facilities are also more developed, with a shopping precinct and a few restaurants. The beach is patrolled.
The wharf where the Reef cruises leave from is at 1770 itself, in the bay.

Get in[edit]
24°9′36″S 151°52′48″EMap of Town of 1770
By plane[edit]
There is an airstrip, but no scheduled commercial flights.  Commercial flights into Bundaberg to the south, and Gladstone to the north, but if looking for a cheap airfare, the Fraser Coast airport at Hervey Bay, around 90 minutes drive to the south, may be an option.

By bus[edit]
The Greyhound Bus stops at the service station in the centre of Agnes Water township.

Get around[edit]
If you are staying at Agnes Water, you can walk to the shops and the beach.  If you are going out to the reef, you can arrange to be picked up in Agnes Water to get to 1770.
Taxis are available, but there is no other local public transport.

See[edit]
 Captain Cook Monument (Captain Cook Drive). Captain Cook came ashore here in 1770, and the monument commemorates the event 
The Great Barrier Reef.  Day boat trips to the reef and to Lady Musgrave Island leave from 1770
Do[edit]
Agnes Water beach
Headland Walk.  From the end of Captain Cook drive there is a walk out to the headland, and a view out over the ocean and the bay.
Surf. Agnes Water is the most northerly surf beach on the eastern coast of Australia, the ones further north are protected by the Great Barrier Reef.
Ocean Swimming.  Agnes Water has a patrolled ocean beach.  1770 has a sheltered beach on the bay.
Buy[edit]
There are two sets of shops at Agnes Water.  Two supermarkets, souvenirs, and a collection of locally made products.

Eat[edit]
 Agnes Water Bakery (Agnes Water Shopping Centre). Bread, sandwiches, meat pies. Moist caramel mud cake. 
Drink[edit]
There are pubs in 1770 and in Agnes.  In 1770 you get a view over the bay.  There is a pizza restaurant linked.

 Agnes Water Tavern, 1 Tavern St. 
Sleep[edit]
 Agnes Water Beach Club. 1 and 2 bedroom units. 
 Sandcastles 1770. 1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom apartments.  A 200m walk down the beach access path directly onto the beach.  Two swimming pools, and cool water spa.  Cafe and restaurant on site. 
 1770 Getaway. 2 bedroom villas 
Splurge[edit]
 Mantra Pavillions Mirage on 1770, Beaches Village Circuit Agnes Water. Still in Agnes Water, although further towards 1770 and away from the patrolled beach than the other hotels. 
Stay safe[edit]
Stingers (box jellyfish) are found as far south as 1770 during the stinger season.  Warning signs are in the bay at 1770.  Agnes Water is a patrolled beach and usually free of stingers.  Seek advice from the lifeguards before entering the water.

Go next[edit]





This city travel guide to Town of 1770 is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Town_of_1770&oldid=4868104"