
Trindade is a village in the Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro, 30 km south of Paraty.


Understand[edit]
It has some of the best beaches in Brazil, and is also surrounded by luxuriant Mata Atlantica rainforest. Whether it's surfing, hiking, swimming in natural pools, visiting waterfalls or just relaxing on one of the many beaches, it's a great little place to visit.

Get in[edit]
By bus or private van from Paraty, 45 min. Buses are every hour, on the hour, until 10pm. Minivans also leave every hour from the main street in Paraty. Buses and vans cost the same.

Get around[edit]
The town is compact, and walking is the best way to get around. Praia Meio is a 5-10 min walk; the more tranquil Cachadaço beach is another 10-15 min past that, through a well marked path (the entry can be hard to spot, but once on the trail it is easy). At the end of Cachadaço, another trail will take you to the natural swimming pool. 35 min from town to the pool.
If you do not wish to walk the trails, boats will take you from Meio to the pool and return.

See[edit]
Boulders at Praia do Melo
Nature. A great variety of singing insects, beautiful morpho butterflies, wonderful fish species and some small mammals can be spotted in the forested hills.

Do[edit]
Praia Cachadaço. A long, quiet beach with only 2 restaurants (and no pumping music).
Praia do Meio. A beach with great waves, but also lined with vastly overpriced restaurants which blare terrible music.
A Pedra que Engole and Poço Fundo falls. About 20-30 minutes up a fairly well marked trail (a sign where you enter from the river, and another where you need to turn off). "The rock that swallows" is a fun place to visit; slip in through a small gap (you will NOT get stuck, it's bigger than it looks!) under a little gushing waterfall, and you slide gently onto a flat, smooth rock. To your left, a shallow pool of water and plenty of space to keep your head above water. About 3m away, there is a large and obvious exit. Scary to go through first time, but a cool little thrill. Hard to spot the actual entry point, but there will probably be local kids there to show you. Poço fundo, or 'deep well', is meters away, with a 2.5-3m long natural pool below a falls. Despite the name, you can stand on the flat rocks and keep your head well above water. Perfect place to cool off in the sun.
Buy[edit]
Clothing stores sell vaguely hippyish beachwear, and vast quantities of Bob Marley t-shirts. Most shops have souvenir stands. Ladies sell cheap, hand made jewelry in the street. You can buy snorkelling gear for the pool.
Fake Havaianas. You won't even have to try to find them...
Eat[edit]
The beach restaurants on Praia Meio are typical of beach destinations: noisy, low quality, very expensive, with a faux Jamaican vibe. On Cachadaço beach, the two restaurants are cheaper (though still not really cheap), portions are bigger and the food is better. Be warned: service is slow at all places.
In the town, there is a variety of places serving fish dishes, local snacks, and some international, e.g. Italian, cuisine. The prices are better than at the beach, generally.
Drink[edit]
The restaurants lining the beach have decent, well stocked bars; beer is the best option, unless you want to remortgage the house for cocktails.

Sleep[edit]
There are many small hotels and camping sites in the village. There are at least 4 hostels, check www.hostelworld.com.

 Trindade Sea and Forest Yoga Hostel, R. do Horto, 176, ☏ +55 24 99276-3608. Check-out: 12:00. Yoga and forest. R$160. 
 Pousada Familia Viva Trindade, R. Pedro Rosa, 399, ☏ +55 24 99216 6471. Very homey. R$96. (updated Jan 2021)
 Pousada e Camping Casa dos Loides, R. Tucanos, s/n, ☏ +55 24 99277 3274. In case you want to rough it (actually it's very nice - there are hostel beds if you don't wish to tent camp). R$96. (updated Jan 2021)
Connect[edit]
There are two internet cafés in town, though the connections are very, very poor. 3G internet is a better option, if you have a dongle or can borrow one. Full 3G signal everywhere in town.

Go next[edit]
Buses and minivans leave to Paraty every hour. From Paraty, Costa Verde connects to Rio de Janeiro (4 hours, arriving Novo Rio station).
Other buses depart towards São Paulo, and can drop you off at other coastal destinations like Ubatuba.







This city travel guide to Trindade is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Trindade&oldid=4341660"