
Truth or Consequences, locally called T or C and formerly known as Hot Springs, is a town in New Mexico in the United States of America.  It gets its curious name from a 1950s-vintage television show that offered to film an episode in some little town far from Hollywood, if that town would change its name to match the show's.  Hot Springs, New Mexico needed an economic boost, agreed to the deal, and has gained notoriety and consequently tourist business as a result.


Get in[edit]
Map of Truth or Consequences
Truth or Consequences is on Interstate highway 25, about halfway between Albuquerque and Las Cruces.  The New Mexico speed limit is 75 mph (121 km/h) in most places, so it's a quick and easy drive from many locations in the Southwestern United States. Be sure and gas up at Socorro from the north or Las Cruces from the south, each about 70 mi (110 km) away, as there are no gas stations between T or C and these cities.
There is a general aviation municipal airport servicing private and charter airplanes. The nearest major airports are located in Albuquerque and El Paso. The Albuquerque Sunport (its international airport) is served by most United States airlines and is a major hub for Southwest Airlines; it is about 150 mi (240 km) north. The El Paso airport is about 150 miles to the south; it also has many major connections.
Trailways bus and independent Mexican buses service T or C, connecting it with Albuquerque and through El Paso to Mexico City.
The nearest Amtrak station is Deming, NM served by Amtrak’s Texas Eagle & Sunset Limited.
The Railrunner commuter train, formally known as the New Mexico Rail Runner Express, terminates in Belen, New Mexico, over 130 miles north, which connects Albuquerque, some pueblos, and Santa Fe.

Get around[edit]
There is no public transportation, but the entire downtown district is very walkable.  That would include all 10 lodging options that offer hot mineral baths, plus the shopping/gallery district, plus 7 places to dine, at least 2 of which would be open for each meal of the day. There is taxi service for getting around town and from T or C to Elephant Butte and back. You can also rent a car ahead of time from Whitehead Auto for a day or two of exploration, and spend the rest of the time exploring the art of doing almost nothing--soaks in different bath houses, walks to the galleries or the river, getting a massage.

See[edit]
Don't miss the Geronimo Springs Museum, or the Hamilton Military Museum at Veterans Memorial Park

33.13015-107.252571 Geronimo Springs Museum, 211 Main St, ☏ +1 575-894-6600, info@geronimospringsmuseum.com. M-Sa 9AM-5PM; Su Noon-5PM. The Geronimo Springs Museum contains the history of Sierra County. From mammoth and mastodon skulls and a world-class collection of prehistoric Mimbres pottery to Apache, Hispanic, military, mining, ranching, and cultural exhibits, the Museum is a fascinating complex of historical artifacts. Each of several rooms represents a specific subject of history, with displays and artifacts interpreted so that the viewer can understand the items exhibited. $5. (updated Feb 2020)
33.122291-107.2649532 Veterans Memorial Park, 996 S. Broadway, ☏ +1 575-894-7640. museum: Tu-Sa 10AM-4PM, Su noon-4PM; park 24/7/365. Dedicated in November 2009, the Hamilton Military Museum is in Veterans Memorial Park, next to the Vietnam War Memorial replica and Walk of Education. The park, museum and its contents are a living memorial and history of the nation and the dedication of those who served it. Historic displays in the museum range from a military button collection to Buffalo Soldier memorabilia, and numerous displays are dedicated to local heroes. Donation. 
Elephant Butte Lake is the largest lake in the state, even when the water's low. To see the actual Elephant Butte (an island just offshore), go to the Dam Site Recreation Area. Take 3rd Street from Date St. in T or C. Go about 4 miles; turn left at the Dam Site Recreation Area and follow the road down to the lake. Dam Site Restaurant there has a great patio, the best view in the county, and a full bar. Be wary of the food; chefs come and go there and it varies greatly in quality.
Spaceport America is 30 miles to the east. During construction visitors can take 3 hour tours (starting in T or C) of the area and facility, after it is completed people will be able to view launches from the terminal (or purchase flights from Virgin Galactic).
Do[edit]
Water sports, remarkably enough.  T or C is on the Rio Grande between Elephant Butte Reservoir and Caballo Lake, two artificial lakes built mainly for flood control and water management, which however offer opportunities for fishing and small boating.  (There are frequent weather advisories for boaters on these lakes resulting from high winds; take these advisories seriously!) Elephant Butte is NM's largest Lake and has over 40 miles of shore front that you can drive right up to and camp. If you are planning on driving on the beach, 4WD is strongly recommended. The sand is deep and soft in spots and you can easily get stuck. There are numerous developed camp sites that feature sheltered picnic tables and benches that do not require 4WD for access.
Check out the local hot springs (this is also the former name of T or C). The Artesian Bath House is a good one. For soaking outdoors in riverside pools, try Riverbend Hot Springs. The ultimate is the new Wet Room at the Blackstone Hot Springs and Lodging. The most economical is the Indian Hot Springs, which has free-flowing water with a pebble bottom.  Each of the 10 has something unique to offer. Sierra Grande Lodge, featured in National Geographic Traveler and on the National Register of Historic Places offers full spa services along with your hot mineral baths.  Charles Motel & Spa has 2 8-person private rooftop jacuzzis with hot mineral water.  All of the hot springs are concentrated in the old part of town. If you have the time and like to walk, it's actually a nice walking tour to go check them all out, then decide where to make your reservation. Plan on a couple of hours.
Monthly Art Hop[dead link] Most shops and galleries are open late on the 2nd Sat of each month. From 6-9PM, many host artist's receptions or offer food and/or music. Starts at Celestial Creations at Date and 2nd Ave. and continues down both Main Street (2 blocks away) and on the one-way section of Broadway, plus the streets in between. On Main Street there is Dust & Glitter, Grapes, and the El Cortez Theater (old 1930s movie theater) and a few other businesses. Over on Broadway are numerous shops and galleries, to include Hot Springs Frame & Art Supply, Angel Remnants, Truth or Consequences brewing Company, Black Cat Books, and many more ending up at Rio Bravo Fine Art where Broadway ends and turns into Date Street.
El Cortez Theater - movies showing F 7PM, Sa 2PM & 7PM, Su 7PM, and W 7PM. Tickets cost $5.
Sierra Del Rio Golf Course.  T or C Municipal Golf Course.
Buy[edit]
 Historic Downtown T or C Hot Springs & Commercial District. You'll find more than a few gift shops, a thrift store or two, a handful of galleries and artist co-ops, a pawn shop, new and used clothing, office supplies, restaurants and more in downtown Truth or Consequences. The commercial and Historic Hot Springs Districts overlap, and it's all completely walkable! 
 Grasshopper Silk Studio, 509 Bass Rd (I25 exit 83 to Hot Springs Landing, Elephant Butte Lake), ☏ +1 575 740-4958. Saturdays & Sundays from 11AM to 4PM, or by appointment. Offers a collection of one-of-a-kind unique silk scarves, shawls, kimono, robes, ruanas & capes. Sandy Hopper, artist, creates these gorgeous silk design wear by hand. Also you will find a collection of her fine art collection including oil paintings, silk framed art and hand painted Shoji Screens. $25. 
Eat[edit]
 Los Arcos Steak & Lobster House, 1400 N Date St, ☏ +1 575-894-6200. Steakhouse with a full bar and an adult ambience. 
 Bigfoot Restaurant, 212 Warm Springs Blvd (Elephant Butte), ☏ +1 575-744-4896. Amazingly diverse menu with all the old favorites along with a focus on Chinese food, plus a burger not to be underestimated. Good prices. 
 Casa Taco (Casa Taco, Elephant Butte), 704 Highway 195, in Elephant Butte, ☏ +1 575 744-4859. Always packed. The tacos are great - they have veggie options. Order the taco combo - one shrimp, one chicken, and one brisket with green chili - all on a deep fried shell - yummmm, and it's a great place to see the locals. 
 Clubhouse Restaurant (at the Sierra del Rio Golf Course), 101 Clubhouse Dr, in Elephant Butte, ☏ +1 575 744-7106. closed M Tu nights. Live music on the weekends, and the best "bar view" in Sierra County - the greens of Sierra del Rio Golf Course 
 La Cocina (La Cocina), 1 Lakeway Dr, ☏ +1 575-894-6499. T or C's favorite Mexican restaurant, located right off of I-25. The best ribeye steak in town; big enough for most folks to share.  Beer and wine, but it's still a real family atmosphere. Good for American and New Mexican fare. Open on Sundays (a big deal in T or C). 
 Pacific Grill, 800 N. Date (at 8th Street). Pretty decent Asian food. Good salad bar where they actually have separate bowls of iceberg/American salad and mixed greens, then all the fixin's. Actually, the only salad bar in the county. They have a tendency to rush you through your meal, serving the entree before you've finished the salad. Closed Su & M. 
Drink[edit]
You'll find a number of watering holes in town. Couple of sawdust joints or bars are:  Truth or Consequences Brewing Company[dead link] (beer, wine, cider, live music), Raymonds (beer, wine, & liquor), Los Arcos (beer, wine, & liquor), Sierra Del Rio (beer,wine,&liquor), Casa Taco (beer & wine), Elephant Butte Inn (beer, wine, & liquor), Pacific Grill (beer & wine) and maybe a few others.

Sleep[edit]
 Charles Motel and Spa, 601 Broadway, toll-free: +1-800-317-4518. Claims to be "an affordable hot springs spa" with massage therapy, wraps, etc., in addition to rooms and (hot!) spring baths. 
 Riverbend Hot Springs, 100 Austin, ☏ +1 575 894-SOAK (7625). A "budget resort" with the town's only riverside hot spring pools. Several types of lodging and spa treatments are available. 
 Sierra Grande Lodge and Spa, 501 McAdoo, ☏ +1 575-894-6976. Beautifully restored historic lodge in downtown, with private hot spring tubs and full service spa. Stay includes Hot Spring Soaks and Breakfast 
 Pelican Spa, 306 S. Pershing, ☏ +1 575-894-0055. The Pelican Spa is a collection of rooms in three locations. There are 3 rooms in the Spa compound ranging from $65-$95 per night, 8 efficiency apartments around the corner that rent for $55 per night, and 3 large apartments located about 1/2 mile to the west on Broadway that rent for $60 per night. The rooms are all brightly colored, features original artwork, and 1950s-style furnishings. All room rates include unlimited soaks in the Spa's five private hot mineral baths. 
 Fire Water Lodge & Spa, 311 Broadway, ☏ +1 575-740-0315. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. Geothermal hot mineral water tubs in the rooms. The lodge is downtown, in the heart of the Historic Bathhouse District. The adobe motel building is a 1950s-style motor court. The rooms surround a charming garden sitting area with a fire pit. Free Wi-Fi. $60 to $95. 
 Blackstone Hotsprings, 410 Austin (1 block south of Broadway between Jones and Foch), ☏ +1 575-894-0894. Check-in: 3-6PM, check-out: 11AM. Blackstone Hotsprings offers luxurious accommodations in T or C's Historic Hotsprings District. In keeping with the name of the town, each room at the Blackstone is named and decorated for a different television show or character (think Babaloo, Roy Rogers, and The Jetsons) using a combination of classic & retro furnishings and a little bit of kitsch. The Wet Room is a tropical paradise available for lodgers and walk-in bathers alike (call to schedule), but all lodgers have access to their own in-room mineral baths. The Blackstone offers free wireless internet and satellite TV in each room. $75-135. 
Go next[edit]
Caballo Lake is much quieter than most of Elephant Butte Lake and is great for fishing and camping.  There are 4 marinas at Elephant Butte Lake, 3 year-round, which offer rentals of pontoon boats, jet skis etc., even overnight.  More camping and r.v. campgrounds.
Take a drive to Hillsboro. One-half hour. 2 restaurants, 2 or 3 galleries/shops, nice ride.
Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge is about 60 miles north; see Socorro article for details.


Routes through Truth or Consequences




Albuquerque ← Socorro ←

 N  S 

→ Las Cruces → END








This city travel guide to Truth or Consequences is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Truth_or_Consequences&oldid=4617820"