
Ubon Ratchathani (อุบลราชธานี) is a city in Isaan, Thailand, in a province of the same name. Often referred to as simply Ubon (อุบล), not to be confused with "Udon" to the north. Ubon lies 582 km from Bangkok and has Thailand's 13th largest city population.


Understand[edit]
Ubon was founded on the northern bank of the Mun River by a group of Lao princes fleeing Vientiane in the late 1700s. They applied for King Taksin's protection, duly granted in 1779 along with the city's new name, meaning "Royal City of the Lotus". Modern-day Ubon was a U.S. air base during the Vietnam War and grew rapidly at the time, but little has happened since then. The town of Warin Chamrap, on the south bank of the river, is effectively a suburb of Ubon these days.
The sleepy Ubon office of the Tourist Authority of Thailand (264/1 Khuan Thani Rd) is worth a visit to pick up useful English maps of the town and nearby provinces. Basic English spoken. Open daily 08:30-16:30.

Get in[edit]
By plane[edit]
Ubon Ratchathani Airport facade
15.251278104.8702311 Ubon Ratchathani International Airport (UBP  IATA). It serves only flights from Bangkok most of the year. Thai Airways has two daily non-stop flights between Bangkok (BKK) and Ubon and return. Nok Air has three daily non-stop flights between Bangkok Don Mueang Airport (DMK) and Ubon and return. Air Asia has two daily non-stop flights between Bangkok (DMK) and Ubon and return year-round. Air Asia operates 3 weekly flights between Phuket and Ubon from Oct-Mar and between Chiang Mai and Ubon from Nov- Mar. Flight time is 50 minutes in an Airbus A320 or Boeing 737 aircraft.   
The airport is at the northern edge of the city almost within walking distance, but accommodation is scattered around Ubon, so better not to consider walking. Much better to go to one of the two limousine (taxi) counters in the airport arrivals hall and purchase for 100 baht a taxi coupon that will take you to almost any point in the city. Limousine (taxi) rates in Ubon are extremely cheap by Western standards and lower than those in Bangkok. Set prices have been established to most destinations in and around Ubon. A taxi from Ubon to Chong Mek costs 1,000 baht for the 90-km, one way trip and a taxi from Ubon to Mukdahan costs 2,000-2,500 baht (depending on the vehicle type) to travel a one-way distance of 192 km. The driver does not charge for the return trip as in some Western countries. There are no taxi meters and the fare must normally be purchased from one of the two taxi counters at the airport arrivals desk.
If you prefer not to take a fixed price taxi, you can always walk the 200 m beyond the general airport parking area to haggle with the waiting tuk-tuk drivers, but chances are that your trip will end up costing you more.

By bus[edit]
Buses to Bangkok take 10 hours (due to stops) and most arrive near Mo Chit BTS station, with prices from about 450 baht and up. There are several different companies, offering morning and night buses, that all have ticket windows at the main Ubon bus terminal north of town. Some have routes and timetables posted on the windows in English, some don't (there might be English-speaking station staff there who can help you).
The Nakhonchai Air private bus company has frequent, well-maintained buses that travel the route and also leave from the Ubon bus terminal, but arrive at their own private terminal in Bangkok, near the main Mo Chit terminal (about 500-900 baht depending on class).
Red songthaews leave directly from the Ubon bus terminal and go downtown for 10 baht. The truck stops at the yellow and white curb between the taxi stands and the exit to the parking lot, with the last departure at 19:00.

A ticket from Ubon to Pakse
Ubon is less than 100 km from the Lao border at Chong Mek/Pakse. A regular 'international' bus service now operates twice daily direct from Ubon bus station (near the "Big C" shopping complex) to Pakse in Laos, and caters for travelers who wish to obtain a Lao visa on arrival (it waits for all passengers to complete immigration and visa formalities before continuing to Pakse). The fare is 200 baht if purchasing tickets to Pakse at Ubon bus terminal. Agents selling tickets in Pakse charge 90,000 kip for the other direction (about 50% more), though this includes pickup from downtown Pakse. The price may be cheaper if you purchase directly at the bus station on Pakse's eastern outskirts.

By train[edit]
Ubon Ratchatani Station
Daily trains connect with Bangkok and stop at all the southern Isaan provincial capitals (Si Saket, Surin, Buriram, and Nakhon Ratchasima (Korat)). The station is to the south of the city on the opposite side of the Mun River in Warin Chamrap. Buses 2 and 6 connect to the center.
Rail services are operated by State Railway of Thailand (SRT). Express and Special Express trains have first and second class sleeping and dining cars. First class sleeping cars are new, fully air-conditioned and consist exclusively of 2-berth-compartments. On Rapid trains, two classes ('2' and '3') are provided. '2' class is comfortable and modern, '3' class is extremely economical, but still acceptable. Check the State Railway of Thailand website (or Google Maps directions) for the current schedule. A third-class ticket to Bangkok costs 205 baht, and a second class seat is between 300 and 400 baht, and the journey takes 10-12 hours.


Bangkok - Ubon Ratchathani


Train No.

Departure

Arrival

Type


21

05:45

14:00

Special Express


135

06:40

18:00

Rapid


71

10:05

19:50

Express


145

15:20

03:35

Rapid


139

18:55

06:15

Rapid


23

20:30

06:35

Special Express


67

21:30

07:50

Express


141

22:45

10:20

Rapid




Ubon Ratchathani - Bangkok


Train No.

Departure

Arrival

Type


72

05:40

14:55

Express


136

07:00

18:40

Rapid


146

09:30

21:10

Rapid


22

14:50

22:50

Special Express


142

17:35

05:00

Rapid


24

19:00

05:15

Special Express


68

19:30

06:40

Express


140

20:30

07:20

Rapid



Get around[edit]
Songthaew routes, Ubon Ratchathani
A bus/songthaew network with 13 fixed routes operates around the city. Most routes are numbered and colour-coded. Look for trucks with big numbers on the front. Many of the songthaews are also painted in the same color as their route is colored on the map. You can pick up a map at the Ubon TAT office. Rides cost 10 baht (December 2019).

Songthaew routes[edit]


Songthaew Route

Common Destinations


ม (Maw)

Main bus terminal via Ring Road and Chaengsanit Road (psychiatric hospital), clock tower roundabout (Ratchaphat University, SK Mall), Thanon Phalochai, Thano Uparat (Thung Si Mueang), Warin market, to Ubon Ratchathani University.


1

Ban Nong Kae in Tambon Chaeramae, via Yasothon Road, then up Ring Road to main bus terminal, back down Ring Road, Thanon Chanegsanit, clocktower roundabout (Ratchaphat University, SK Mall), Thanon Sapphasit, Thung Si Mueang, Sapphasit hospital, Ubonrak Thonburi Hospital, Talat Yai (central market), Warin market, to Ubon Ratchathani University.


2

Rear of Si Pathum Phitthayakhan school, via Thanon Klang-awut, Thanon Chayangkun, main bus terminal, Thanon Chayangkun (Big C, Ratchawet Hospital, NE Polytechnic college, Tesco-Lotus), Thanon Ratchathani, clocktower roundabout (Ratchaphat University, SK Mall), Thanon Chaengsanit, Thanon Sapphasit, Thanon Phitchitrangsan, main post office, Thung Si Mueang, Warin market, Ubon Ratchathani Railway Station.


3

Ratchathani Technology Voctational college  via Thanon Ubon 2, Thanon Chayangkun, main bus terminal, Thanon Chayangkun (Big C, Ratchawet Hospital, NE Polytechnic college, Tesco-Lotus, Robinsons), Thanon Sapphisit (Sapphasit Prasong Hospital), Thanon Luang, main post office, Talat Yai (central market), Warin market, Kantharalak road, Big C, Ban Ko.


6

Benchama Maharacha School (Thanon Sapphasit) via Thung Si Mueang and Warin market to Khai Sapphasitthi Prasong Hospital.


7

Wat Pakittiyansophon in Ban Dong Saen Suk,  via Ban Nikhom Phattana, Thanon Ubon-Trakan, Thanon Sapphisit (Sapphasit Prasong hospital), Thanon Suriyat, Thanon Chayangkun (Robinsons), Thanon Ratchathani, clocktower roundabout (Ratchaphat University, SK Mall), Thanon Chaengsanit, Thanon Sapphasit, Thanon Chayangkun, Thung Si Mueang, Ubon city hall, Thung si Mueang, Warin market, Thanon Sisaket, to the Tambon Kham Nam Saep municipal offices.


8

Circular route, running from 41 km marker on Ring Road, via Ring Road (main bus terminal, Big C), Thanon Chonlaprathan-Thabo, Thanon Nikhomsaiklang, provincial offices, Talat Yai (central market), main post office, Thanon Luang, Thanon Sapphasit (Sapphasit Prasong hospital), Thanon Ubon-Trakan, (on-demand deviation to Ban Na Mueang), Ring Road, Thanon Ubon Trakan, Highway 4009 (50 Pansa Mahavajiralongkorn Hospital) to Ratchapachanukhro 32 school.


9

Warin market via Thanon Sisaket in Tambon Kham Nam Saep to Ban Khu Duea in Tambon Chaeramae


10

Regional Cancer Centre via Thanon Khlang-awut, Thanon Sukhaphatthana, main bus terminal, Ring Road, Soi Chayangkun 21, Thanon Chayangkun (NE Polytechnic College, Tesco-Lotus, Ratchaphat University, Robinsons, Talat Yai (central market), Thung Si Mueang, Ubonrak Thonburi hospital, Thanon Somdet to Thanon Somdet Khae Yak 1.


11

Village Welfare Project (km8 on Hwy 212 to Amnat Charoen), Thanon Chayangkun, Ring road (main bus terminal), Big C, Soi Chayangkun 21, Thanon Chayangkun (Ratchawet Hospital, NE Polytechnic college, Tesco-Lotus, Robinsons), Thanon Upalisan, Thanon Phadaeng, Thanon Uparat (Thung Si Mueang), Ave Maria School, to Soi Phanom 7.


12

Regional Cancer Centre via Thanon Sinawong, Yasothon Road, Ban Tha Bo Nuea, Thanon sukha-Upatham, Thanon Chanegsanit (psychiatric hospital), clock tower roundabout (Ratchaphat University, SK Mall), Thanon Chaengsanit, Thanon Suriyat, Thanon Chayangkun, Thung Si Mueang, Talat Yai (central market), main post office, Thanon Somdet (Huai Nong reservoir dam wall), Phathom Phittayakhom school in Tambon Pathum.


13

Warin market to Wat Nong Pa Phong. (This route is very infrequent)

There are plenty of tuk-tuks puttering and samlors pedaling around. As always, agree on a fare before you get in, and expect to pay 20-40 baht depending on distance and your haggling skills.
If you're feeling adventurous, try renting a motorbike or a car to get you to one of the many national parks in the province. Jay-Jay Car and Motorcycle Hire provide good, clean vehicles at competitive prices.

See[edit]
Candle sculpture in Thung Si Muang ParkChedi of Wat Nong Bua
 Thung Si Muang Park (ทุ่งศรีเมือง). At the centre of town in front of city hall, this pleasant little park has several points of interest. A bright yellow elaborately carved candle sculpture, completed in 2000, standing 22 m tall and dedicated to the king, showcases Isaan art styles and has become the symbol of the city. The candle is placed on a junk, with a garuda eagle at the bow and a naga serpent around it. A statue of Phra Phatumvoraratsuriyawang commemorates the tersely-named founder of the town. Monument of Goodness (อนุสาวรีย์แห่งความดี), built by WWII POWs to honour the generosity and goodness of the people of Ubon Ratchathani. 
City Pillar Shrine (ศาลหลักเมือง) - At the southern corner of the field, the sacred pillar was built in 1972.
National Museum of Ubon Ratchathani (พิพิธภัณฑสถานแห่งชาติ อุบลราชธานี) - The single-storey hip roofed building, built in 1918, once served as the city hall before it was handed to the Fine Arts Department. The museum has exhibitions on local geography, history of the city’s establishment, archaeological fine art objects, local handicrafts, and folk games.
The Golden Jubilee Art and Cultural Centre (ศูนย์ศิลปวัฒนธรรมกาญจนาภิเษก) - The seven-storey building in contemporary Isan architecture was built to commemorate the Golden Jubilee Celebrations of the king's accession to the throne. Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn presided over the opening ceremony on 11 December 2001.
Monument of Phra Pathum Worarat Suriyawong or Chao Kham Phong (อนุสาวรีย์พระปทุมวรราชสุริยวงศ์ หรือ เจ้าคำผง) Phra Pathum Worarat Suriyawong was the founder of Ubon Ratchathani during 1778-1795.
Sculpture of Somdet Phra Maha Wirawong or Tisso Uan (ปฏิมากรรมสมเด็จพระมหาวีรวงศ์ หรือ ติสโส อ้วน) A famous monk who was well versed in Sutra and Vipassana.
Sculpture of Harmony and Progress (ปฏิมากรรมร่วมใจก้าวไปข้างหน้า) - The sculpture represents the harmony of four countries: Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam.
 Prasat Ban Ben (ปราสาทบ้านเบญจ์). The Khmer sanctuary is a religious site comprising three brick prangs on separated laterite bases. The Fine Arts Department excavated the site in 1990 and found lintels featuring nine directional guardian angels and the God Indra on his Erawan heavenly elephant. (updated Aug 2018)
 Hat Khu Duea (หาดคูเดื่อ). This beach on the Mun River is 12 km (7.5 mi) from downtown Ubon Ratchathani via Highway 24. (updated Aug 2018)
Kaeng Saphue (แก่งสะพือ) - The rapids in the Mun River. "Saphue" derives from the word "Samphuet" in the Suai ethnic language meaning "large serpent".
 Sirindhorn Dam (เขื่อนสิรินธร). Called Khuean Dom Noi by the people of the area, the rockfill dam with a clay core was constructed across the Lam Dom Noi, a tributary of the Mun River. The hydroelectric dam is 42 metres high and 940 metres long. (updated Aug 2018)
 Ban Kan Lueang Archaeological Site (แหล่งโบราณคดีบ้านก้านเหลือง). An archaeological site which can be dated back to 2,800-2,500 years ago. In 1996, the Fine Arts Department found a number of artefacts such as beads, pottery, bronze bells, iron axes, and chaff. (updated Aug 2018)
 Ban Pa-ao (บ้านปะอาว). This ancient village is in Tambon Nong Khon. Two centuries ago, the villagers immigrated from Vientiane during the reign of King Siri Bunsan. The village produces brass work in an ancient style. (updated Aug 2018)
Chong Mek (ช่องเม็ก) - The permanent Thai-Lao border pass is 90 km (56 mi) from downtown Ubon Ratchathani. The pass is a land bridge to Champasak Province.
 Annamese Lion Pulpit at Ban Chi Thuan (ธรรมาสน์สิงห์ศิลปะญวนที่บ้านชีทวน). The Buddhist pulpit is placed at Wat Sinuan Saeng Sawang Arom. The concrete pulpit itself is unique, with a lion sculpture carrying the pulpit with decorative stucco, multi-layer wooden roof, and painting in the Annamese style. (updated Aug 2018)
Maenam Song Si (แม่น้ำสองสี) - At the mouth of the Mun River, Ban Woen Buek. The Mun River runs into the Mekong, so we can see two rivers, in two different colours. "Song si" means 'two colours', blending together. The Mekong River is reddish brown, while the Mun River is bluish.
 Sao Chaliang (เสาเฉลียง). Carved by wind and water for millions of years, the mushroom-like stone towers are scattered around the area containing shell fossils, sand and gravels in their texture. Geologists think that over a million years ago this area was a sea. (updated Aug 2018)
Pha Taem and Pha Kham (ผาแต้มและผาขาม) - The towering cliffs house groups of prehistorical paintings which date back 3,000-4,000 years. There are over 300 paintings in five categories including animals, geometrical motifs, rice farmers, hands, and "tum", or fish trap.
 Namtok Soi Sawan (น้ำตกสร้อยสวรรค์). Two streams, Huai Soi and Huai Phai, combine and plunge 20 metres down to the pond below, making the waterfall look like a necklace – "soi" in Thai. (updated Aug 2018)
Namtok Thung Na Mueang (น้ำตกทุ่งนาเมือง) - The medium-sized waterfall cascades down a 25-metre cliff through flowerbeds which are in full bloom from October to December.
 Namtok Saeng Chan or Namtok Ru (น้ำตกแสงจันทร์หรือ น้ำตกรู). The tiny cascade is special as the stream falls through a hole, "ru", down to the pond below. At noon, sunshine through the hole makes the waterfall look like a ray of moonshine, "saeng chan". (updated Aug 2018)
 Dong Na Tham Forest (ป่าดงนาทาม). From September to November is the best time to visit as flowers are in full bloom. There are waterfalls and fogs over the Mekong River. From January to March the forest changes its hue, with trees shedding their leaves, and cruises in the Mekong run from Ban Pak La to Khan Tha Kwian. (updated Aug 2018)
Phu Lon (ภูหล่น) - The mountain is in Tambon Song Yang, 20 km (12 mi) north of Amphoe Si Mueang Mai. It has a cave where monk Phra Achan Man Phurithatto practiced his Vipassana.
Namtok Kaeng Lamduan (น้ำตกแก่งลำดวน) - These falls are in the compound of the Ubon Ratchathani Wildlife Reservation Promotion and Development Station. The waterfall runs over a rock terrace and through the shady forest of Lamduan trees.
 Namtok Huai Sai Yai or Kaeng I Khiao (น้ำตกห้วยทรายใหญ่ หรือ แก่งอีเขียว). The waterfall is in the Buntharik–Khao Yot Mon Wildlife Sanctuary. The waterfall runs over the rock terrace in a shady environment. (updated Aug 2018)
Hat Wat Tai (หาดวัดใต้) - A beach in the middle of the Mun River. During the dry season, its white sandy beach is a tourist destination.
National parks[edit]
 Phu Chong Na Yoi National Park (อุทยานแห่งชาติภูจอง-นายอย). The park covers a total area of 686 km2 (265 sq mi). Its boundary connects to Laos and Cambodia in the area called the Emerald Triangle. (updated Aug 2018)
 Pha Taem National Park (อุทยานแห่งชาติผาแต้ม). The park features plateaus, undulating hills, and towering cliffs with strange sandstone formations scattered around. The park is covered mostly by deciduous dipterocarp forest and wild flowers can be found on the rock terrace. (updated Aug 2018)
 Kaeng Tana National Park (อุทยานแห่งชาติแก่งตะนะ). The park features plateaus and undulating hills with deciduous dipterocarp forest and grassland. (updated Aug 2018)
Temples[edit]
 Wat Nong Bua (Off Chanyangkun Rd, past the BKS station). A very unusual large white angular chedi, said to be a copy of the Mahabodhi stupa in Bodh Gaya, India. Quite stunning in appearance, but the decorations seem rather modern and with reason. The structure was built only in 1957 to commemorate the 2500th anniversary of Buddha's death. 
 Wat Nong Pah Pong (วัดหนองป่าพง). The forest monastery of the late venerable Ajahn Chah, who is one of the most famous meditation masters in Thailand. About 70 monks live here, including some foreign ones, and there is a small museum and a stupa (or chedi) with the relics of Ajahn Chah to visit. The temple is in a lush forest of Tambon Non Phueng. Monks study and practice Vipassana meditation there. The temple has the Phra Phothiyan Thera Museum that displays the eight requisites and wax model of Luangpu Cha. 
 Wat Pah Nanachat (International Forest Monastery วัดป่านานาชาติ). A famous forest meditation temple with more than 20 foreign/Western monks from all over the world. If you come before 08:00 you can join in the morning meal, and maybe speak to a monk afterwards. You can take a red songthaew from Warin Chamrab to Wat Pah Nanachat for about 10 baht. Numerous foreign monks study and practice Vipassana meditation here; most of them can speak Thai fluently and pray in Pali. 
 Wat Thung Si Muang (วัดทุ่งศรีเมือง) (Luang Rd). Primarily notable for its wooden scripture hall (hor trai), on stilts above a pond. The monastery was built in the reign of Rama III (1824-51) to house a replica of Buddha's footprint. The Buddha's footprint is housed in the ubosot which mirrors art blending between the early Rattanakosin era and that of Vientiane. Another important building in the temple is the Ho Trai, the Hall of Tipitaka scriptures. The wooden hall was built in the pond to protect the Tipitaka from insects. 
 Wat Si Ubon Rattanaram or Wat Si Thong (วัดศรีอุบลรัตนาราม หรือ วัดศรีทอง). The ubosot houses a sacred Buddha image known as “Phra Kaeo Butsarakham”. The Buddha image, in the attitude of subduing Mara, is carved from topaz into the Chiang Saen style. Each year, in the Songkran Festival, people parade the Buddha image for the people to pay their respects to and bathe. (updated Aug 2018)
 Wat Chaeng (วัดแจ้ง). The ubosot, which was only completed 24 years later, is noted for its architecture and rare woodcarving. As a heritage site, the ubosot is well preserved in its original condition. It won a Certificate of Honour from Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn in the "Architect 87" Exhibition. (updated Aug 2018)
 Wat Maha Wanaram (วัดมหาวนาราม). It was at first only a "Samnak Song", a monastic residence, for Vipassana monks. According to a stone inscription found behind the principal Buddha statue, Phrachao Yai In Paeng, it was built in 1807. The stucco Buddha statue, in the attitude of subduing Mara, was built in the Laotian style. (updated Aug 2018)
 Wat Burapharam (วัดบูรพาราม). The temple once served as a residence for famous meditation monks. Today, the temple houses lifelike stone figures of these monks. (updated Aug 2018)
 Wat Supattanaram Worawihan (วัดสุปัฏนารามวรวิหาร). This is the first Dhammayutika temple of the province. The temple has a special ubosot designed by a royal highway engineer Luang Sathit Nimankan (Chuan Supiyaphan). It has a Thai-style roof, Western-style hall and Khmer-style base. (updated Aug 2018)
 Wat Phukhao Kaeo (วัดภูเขาแก้ว). The temple has an ubosot delicately decorated with a tiered roof covered with terracotta tiles and supporting a golden spire in the middle. Inside is a high-relief regarding important phrathats, relic-containing pagodas, of Thailand. (updated Aug 2018)
 Wat Thung Si Wilai (วัดทุ่งศรีวิไล). The temple houses Luangpho Wiset, the principal Buddha image carved from laterite seated beneath the Naga's hood. The Buddha image from the Dvaravati period is considered a sacred icon for the village. The temple is surrounded by several enclosures of Sima stones that mark the temple’s consecrated boundary. (updated Aug 2018)
 Wat Tham Kuha Sawan (วัดถ้ำคูหาสวรรค์). The temple was built by Luangpu Khamkhaning Chulamani to be a place for meditation practice where he also resided. After Luangpu's death his body, which did not decompose, was put in a glass coffin and is considered sacred. (updated Aug 2018)
Wat Phu Anon (วัดภูอานนท์) - The temple has interesting attractions including a rock terrace with large footprints, nature-made stone jar, and cave painting.
Wat Sa Prasan Suk or Wat Ban Na Mueang (วัดสระประสานสุข หรือ วัดบ้านนาเมือง) - The temple houses a special ubosot in the shape of the Suphannahong Royal Barge decorated with mosaics. The abbot is Achan Bunmi.
Library, Tung Sri Muang temple, typical Isan-style
Do[edit]
 Candle Festival (งานประเพณีแห่เทียนเข้าพรรรษา). Ubon's biggest event. Held in early-July on Khao Phansa day, which marks the beginning of the rainy season retreat. For three months, monks do not leave their temple except for an emergencies, and laypersons vow to abstain from drinking alcohol as well as bonking. Huge wax candles are displayed in Thung Si Muang Park, which are carried around town in a procession the next morning. 
 Illuminated Boat Procession (งานประเพณีไหลเรือไฟ). This less well-known festival is held in October on the river near the Rattanakosin Bicentennial Bridge to mark the end of the rainy season (Ok Phansa). 
 Flower Festival (งานเทศกาลไม้ดอกไม้ประดับ). Held every February at Thung Kham Nam Saep Stadium, Amphoe Warin Chamrap, the festival features floral floats, decorative and flowering plant contests, and fair. (updated Nov 2015)
 Kaeng Saphue Songkran Festival (งานประเพณีมหาสงกรานต์แก่งสะพือ). Held every April in Amphoe Phibun Mangsahan, the festival includes a beauty contest, fair, local sports, and local music contest. (updated Nov 2015)
 Traditional Boat Races (งานแข่งขันเรือยาวประเพณี). Several boat racing tournaments are held annually in October after the end of Buddhist Lent. The Mueang Ubon Ratchathani Municipality's tournament is held near the Rattanakosin Bicentennial Bridge. Tambon Phibun Mangsahan Municipality's tournament is held near the Mun River Bridge, and Wat Pho Tak's tournament is held in front of the temple. (updated Nov 2015)
Learn[edit]
Buddhist meditation[edit]
 Wat Pah Nanachat ((WPN) The International Forest Monastery) (Ban Bung Wai, Warin (12 km from Ubon Ratchathani)). Established in 1975 by the late Ajahn Chah, the monastery offers full training courses in English. Full board and lodgings are available, though prior notice is required. Write to The Guest Monk, Wat Pah Nanachat, Bahn Bung Wai, Warin Chamrab, Ubon Ratchathani 34310. 
Buy[edit]
 Phanchat Esan Folk Arts & Handicrafts. Wide selection of souvenirs and handicrafts. Has two beautifully designed locations downtown. 
Eat[edit]
 126 Cafe Ubon, Ratchabut Rd (close to the intersection of night markets). 17:00-00:00. A secret cafe with live acoustic music. Provided healthy drinks made from soy milk and delicious fusion cuisines 
 Muen Thip, Phichit Rangsan Rd (east of intersection with Thepyothi). A popular two-storey place specializing in a Thai interpretation of Korean barbecue (Neua Yang Kaolee), grilled at your own table and dipped in fiery sauces. A plate of your meat of choice and a large tray of veggies, plenty for two, costs 90 baht. English menu available, not that you really need it. 
 The Outside Inn, 11 Suriyat Rd (Within 100 m of Wat Si Pradu (“See ba-doo”)), info@theoutsideinnubon.com. Variety of cuisine- authentic, made-from-scratch Mexican food, Thai classics, Isaan and Lao specialties, and Western favourites. Many offered in vegetarian and vegan versions. Menu isn’t huge, but it’s varied and unique. Guest rooms from 750 baht. 
15.239735104.8553171 Peppers Restaurant & Bakery, 297/2-3 Uppalisan Rd (Opposite the entrance to the air force base, next to the international Airport), ☏ +66 45 245275, info@peppersbakery.com. 10:00-20:00. Great Western and Thai food, along with coffee cakes, pies, fruit shakes, milkshakes, tea, cocktails, beer and wine. 30-250THB. (updated Jan 2020)
 Spago Original Italian Pizza, 420 Chaengsanit Rd, ☏ +66 45 281100. 11:30-14:30 and 17:00-22:00. The pizzas are baked in a wood-fired oven and the flour and tomatoes are imported from Italy. 
Drink[edit]
 Miss Aree Coffee (Opposite Ubon University). Serves freshly brewed coffee. 
15.2352104.85461 Xero Coffee Club (Opposite Siam Commercial Bank, across from Tokyo Hotel), ☏ +66 86-823-6636. Daily 11:00-16:00. 2-floor co-work space and coffee house, opened in October 2018. It’s American-owned, the coffee is fresh, there are an assortment of homemade cake loaves including banana bread. Unusually for Ubon Ratchathani, you can also create your own sandwich. Nice owner and fast, kind service. (updated Oct 2018)
Sleep[edit]
 Bua Boutique Hotel (Formerly the Montana Hotel), 179/1-4 Upparat, ☏ +66 45 261748,  -749,  -750. Rooms with air, cable TV and mini-bar. There is a karaoke bar attached to the hotel. It is downtown with easy access to public transportation. 500-700 baht. 
 Laithong Hotel, Phichit Rangsan Rd, ☏ +66 45 264271. Advertises itself with the tagline In Ubon, Luxury Equals the Laithong Hotel, which is probably true, if only for lack of competition. A little faded in decor, but kept in reasonably good shape, and features a pool, restaurant, nightclub, and karaoke bar. 1,400+ baht. 
 Nap@Mun hostel, 324 Phrommarat Road (take a Red Songthaew from a bus station to Talad Yai (10 baht) and walk there within 2 min), napatmunhostel@gmail.com. Check-in: upon request in advance via email. Rooms with A/C, cable TV. It is a convenient location in the middle of old town of Ubon Ratchathani with easy access to public transportation and walking distance to the old temples and markets and also national museum. Need a roughly time of arrival at least a day in advance. 200-240 baht. 
 Nevada (mid-town). Has a Starbucks in front of the hotel, has a cinema complex within its area. Walk to Tesco and Robinson (the biggest department store). From 1,000 baht. 
 Phadaeng Hotel, 126 Phadaeng Rd, ☏ +66 45 254600, thephadaeng@gmail.com. A 7-minute walk from Thung Si Muang Park. Very good service for a very nice price. English spoken. 500 baht. (updated Nov 2015)
 The Ratchathani, 297 Khianthani Rd, ☏ +66 45 244388-90. Check-out: 12:00. Boutique hotel with restaurant located in the city center. Rooms are a bit run down (peeling paint, slightly stained sheets, etc.), but nothing is broken. Air conditioning, Wi-Fi, hot water all included. (Called just "The Ratchathani" on Google Maps - not to be confused with another "Ratchathani Hotel" far out in the countryside.) From 450 baht, sometimes cheaper if booked online. (updated Jun 2019)
 River Moon Guesthouse. Five-minute walk from Ubon train station, opposite fire station. From 150 baht. 
 Sri Isan 2 Hotel (Sri Esarn 2 Hotel), 60 Ratchabut Road (Next door to Sri Isan 1 - between Market & Wat Luang), ☏ +66 45 241 577. Small friendly family-run hotel with good value fan rooms with attached shower 200 baht. Great location near the river and the market. 200 baht. (updated Mar 2019)
 Suriyat, Soi Suriyat (Near Esso on central road), ☏ +66 45 241144. Cheapest fan room, cold water, no TV, 250 baht; with TV, 280 baht. From 250 baht. 
 Tohsang City Hotel, 251 Palochai Rd, ☏ +66 45 245531-9. Same owner as Tohsang Khongjiam Resort. 1,200+ baht. 
 Tohsang Khongjiam Resort, 66 Moo 7, Baan Huay-Mak Tai, Khongjiam (over an hour outside the city), ☏ +66 45 351174. A classy resort on the banks of the Mekong River near the Lao border. 2,000+ baht. 
 Tokyo Hotel, 178 Uparat Rd, ☏ +66 45 241739. Has an old and a new wing. Cheapest double rooms with a fan for 360 baht. Songthaew number 2 runs from bus station opposite to the hotel for 10 baht. From 360 baht. 
 28 Rachabutr Hostel, 28 Rachabutr Road, ☏ +66 89-1443789. Check-out: noon. Dorm and rooms with shared baths dorm 200 baht; room from 350 baht. (updated Mar 2017)
 Ubon Buri (between Muang Ubon amd Warin Chamrab). Resort hotel on a lake in the outskirts. From 1,000 baht. 
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
Sam Phan Bok, the "Grand Canyon of Thailand"
Preah Vihear (Prasat Khao Phra Wihaan in Thai) - Khmer temple once accessible as a day trip from neighboring Si Saket Province (which is closed from the Thailand side; it's possible to cross into Cambodia and go from there, but this will take considerably longer)
Cambodia
Laos - the nearest city is Pakse - while there are a couple of different ways to go, the most straightforward is a tour bus leaving the Ubon terminal at 09:30 and 15:00 everyday for 200 baht


Routes through Ubon Ratchathani




Bangkok ← Si Saket ←

 W  E 

→  END











This city travel guide to Ubon Ratchathani is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ubon_Ratchathani&oldid=4614691"