

Ulladulla harbour
Ulladulla is a town in the Shoalhaven area of the Australian state of New South Wales. Along with Mollymook immediately north, it is a popular vacation destination for Sydneysiders over summer and for weekends away.


Get in[edit]
Map of Ulladulla
Ulladulla is around 3 hours drive south of Sydney by car along the Princes Highway (National Route 1).  It is about the same distance from Canberra via Braidwood and Batemans Bay.
Premier Pioneer [1] have a coach services either direct from Sydney or meeting the train at Bomaderry.
Priors Bus Service [2] also operates a coach service from Sydney that meets the train at Bomaderry but it travels via the Southern Highlands.
Murrays [3] have a daily bus service between Batemans Bay from Canberra which connects with the Pioneer services to Ulladulla.

Get around[edit]
Most parts of Ulladulla and Mollymook are walking distance to the ocean beaches. There is a hill in the centre of town, and some hotels are at the top of the hill, and a bit further (and steeper) to walk. Its about 45 minutes walk from Ulladulla to Mollymook.
With a car you will have no problems getting around.
Ulladulla Bus Lines provides infrequent services around Ulladulla and nearby towns, and taxis are also available.

See[edit]
The small Warden Head Lighthouse is located just outside of Ulladulla
Ulladulla is largely a service town for the local agricultural, fishing and tourism industries, and has few attractions likely to be of interest to tourists in their own right. However, it has some pleasant beaches and is a convenient base for exploring the Shoalhaven region.

Do[edit]
 Blessing of the Fleet. Held on Easter Sunday, the Blessing of the Fleet at Ulladulla Harbour is an originally Italian rite that has morphed into the biggest day of the year for Ulladulla, with a parade of floats, carnival games and fireworks in the evening.  Book well ahead if visiting around Easter. 
 Golf. Mollymook has a public golf course, popular with visitors. 
Nearby Milton has a theatre frequented by many local acts, as well as some more popular Australian acts.
Buy[edit]
Ulladulla has the usual mix of supermarkets, food stores and clothing stores for an Australian country town of its size. The full-sized supermarkets are a useful resource for travellers staying in small towns and caravan parks in the region, most of which lack supermarkets or are served only by over-priced stores. Several surfware stores are located in the centre of town along the Princes Highway.

-35.3575150.47361 Rowen's Arcade, 93 Princes Hwy. Shopping centre with around 25 shops in total.  (updated Apr 2021)
Eat[edit]
Ulladulla is still a fishing harbour, and you have a choice of fresh seafood of the fine dining variety, or served up in batter with chips to be eaten at a picnic table by the water and the leftovers fed to the seagulls. Your choice.

-35.35741150.47461 Oceanvibe, 1/92 Princes Hwy, ☏ +61244804111. 7:30 am–4 pm daily. Don't be put off by the nondescript entrance, there's a giant outdoor patio out back with harbour views and plenty of ocean vibes.  The food is standard Aussie brunch fare (avocado toast, burgers, salt & pepper squid etc) but it's all very well executed. Mains around $24. (updated Jan 2024)
Drink[edit]
-35.35788150.474661 The Ruse, 5/84 Princes Hwy, ☏ +61 2 4454 0894. Almost certainly the coolest watering hole in town, the Ruse serves up harbour views, funky disco music, excellent cocktails and surprisingly authentic Mexican bites like Baja fish tacos and elotes on the side. Book ahead on weekends. (updated Apr 2023)
Sleep[edit]
Ulladulla has a variety of tourist accommodation with several caravan parks, cabins, motels, and holiday houses. Cabins book out early over summer. Weekdays during the off-peak season there should usually be vacancies available if you want to stop off while on the road.

-35.3503150.44381 Cupitt's Estate, 58 Washburton Rd, ☏ +61 2 4455 7888, info@cupitt.com.au. Gorgeous small winery with a very popular cafe/restaurant/tasting room, set in rolling hills just outside Ulladulla. Accommodation consists of 10 hillside "pods" that can fit up to four people, some of which have private outdoor baths. $500. (updated Apr 2023)
Go next[edit]
Batemans Bay is a larger centre catering to the tourist market around 45 minutes south along the highway. Huskisson on Jervis Bay lies around the same distance north.
Nearby Tabourie Lake (around 15 minutes south) offers opportunities for canoeing and birdlife viewing.



Routes through Ulladulla




Sydney ← Nowra ←

 N  S 

→ Batemans Bay → Eden









This city travel guide to Ulladulla is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Ulladulla&oldid=4868584"