
Urana is the central town in the Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia.


Get in[edit]
The only feasible option to reach Urana is by road.  From the south, Urana Corowa Road branches off the Riverina Highway (B58) and leads directly to Urana's main street.  From the north, Urana Morundah Road branches off the Newell Highway (A39) and meets Urana Corowa Road in the center of the town.
If taking public transport, NSW Trainlink operates a coach service connection from Wagga Wagga to Echuca, which stops in Urana on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Fridays.  The bus connects to the XPT Train service to Sydney and Melbourne in Wagga.
The Urana Airstrip is 1,000 meters long and runs east/south east to west/north west and is equipped with a windsock.  There are no landing charges and no fuel is available.  It's for recreational and emergency use - and you wouldn't likely get a charter let along any scheduled passenger transport.

Get around[edit]
Being a very small town, Urana can be easily navigated on foot.

See[edit]
 The Urana Aquatic Centre. A large freshwater lake located at the southern end of the town. Although it is usually devoid of water, in rainy times it plays host to numerous species of bird and marine life which makes bird- and animal-watching the principal activity in Urana over the rainy season and for some months afterward. 
 The Urana Courthouse Museum, William St (the centre of town), ☏ +61 2 6930-9100. Has a wide range of memorabilia and artefacts from the town and the Urana Shire. Free, however entry must be arranged ahead of time by contacting the shire council. (updated Jul 2021)
Do[edit]
 The Urana Aquatic Centre. Hosts animal species, and provides numerous activities to humans also. The centre is equipped with water-skiing, boating and swimming infrastructure and there are many facilities such as toilets, change rooms, shade cloth and free public barbecues along the shoreline. The Centre is well equipped to cater for groups of people, and is a highly recommended destination for disabled children. 
 The Urana Hotel. (the smaller pub across the road from the supermarket the larger Royal George Hotel is closed) serves drinks and pub snacks throughout the week. A visit to the pub is an insight into the lives of the folk who live in the shire. 
Buy[edit]
The usual Australian country town souvenirs such as stubby holders, fridge magnets, bumper stickers, table cloths and bar mats are available at the Museum and Cafe in town.

Eat[edit]
All establishments listed below are in the town's main street.

The IGA shopping centre  has a limited range but satisfies most grocery needs.  Having a complete monopoly over many products, the prices are absolutely outrageous.
A cafe operates 7 days a week with a good mix of hot and cold food.  Basic groceries such as milk and bread can be purchased here if the supermarket is closed.
The pub has a full bistro menu on Friday and Saturday nights which encompasses the usual wholesome and hearty pub fare such as parmigianas, steaks and casseroles.  As is the custom in rural areas, prices are generally higher than one would find for the same meals in the city.
Drink[edit]
There are only two licensed establishments in operation at the current time in Urana.
The pub serves drinks every night and has an official closing time of 11PM Monday to Saturday and 10PM on Sunday, however anecdotal evidence suggests that the closing time is closer to 6:30PM except Fridays.
The Urana Bowling  Club remains open after the pub closes during the week, however this establishment will most likely be closed by 8:30PM.

Sleep[edit]
 The Urana Caravan Park, ☏ +61 2 6920 8192. On the shores of the picturesque Urana Aquatic Centre offers competitive rates for camping, and comfortable, well appointed cabins of varying sizes. Facilities are also available for campers with their own campervans or caravans. The caravan park has clean and spacious amenities and has been recognised for being easily accessible for people with wheelchairs and other mobility aids. The proprietor, Marion, is a rich source of information into the history of the Urana Shire and has worked tirelessly to promote the town as a tourist destination on account of its central location and natural beauty. (updated Oct 2021)
 The Urana Hotel, ☏ +61 2 6920 8192. Provides pub-style accommodation and bookings are required in advance. (updated Oct 2021)
Connect[edit]
Go next[edit]
Morundah - 50 km north of Urana, just off the Newell Highway, Morundah is a small town comprised chiefly of a pub and a wheat silo. The pub has excellent gourmet pies and an extensive modern menu on Friday and Saturday nights. The town also contains the Paradise Theatre, which has hosted Australian and international opera companies before.





This city travel guide to Urana is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Urana&oldid=4382800"