

Two emblems of the Vail Valley - the Clock Tower with the Gore Range in the background
Vail[dead link] is a U.S. ski resort town set in the Rocky Mountains. Vail is located in the Northwestern region of the state of Colorado. It is 100 miles west of Denver and 35 miles (56 km) east of Eagle.


Understand[edit]
Roughly Vail is divided into four zones; West Vail, Vail Village, Lionshead, and East Vail.

Get in[edit]
39°38′9″N 106°21′47″WMap of Vail
By car[edit]
I-70 is a direct route into Vail. It's exactly 100 miles from Denver, and about 130 miles from Denver International Airport.
During peak times, I-70 can get very congested and it is not unheard-of for a trip from Vail to Denver to take 3 hours or more. Peak times are weekend afternoons (2-6PM) both in the summer and winter.  Plan accordingly and either leave in the morning, or leave Vail after 5PM in the winter. If you do leave after dusk, however, be warned that road conditions can get icy. If you are from a major metropolitan area, the drive may also seem very dark to you with virtually no highway lighting and no reflectors on the roadway. Due to the darkness, high beam laws are often ignored. You can get a snapshot of travel conditions on the Colorado Highway Patrol web site [1].
If you are not experienced with winter driving conditions, you may want to think twice about travelling to Vail by rental car.  Although most of the time you'll find the highway dry and perfectly fine, when it snows the road can get nasty. The ride from Denver takes you from 5,280 ft (1,610 m) to the Eisenhower pass/tunnel at over 11,000 ft. After a steep drop to Silverthorne at 8,750 ft, I-70 winds through Officer's Gulch which is notorious for black ice conditions, high winds and white out conditions when the weather is severe. I-70 then climbs over Vail Pass at 10,650 ft before the drop to the Vail Valley floor at 8,120 ft. If you are uncomfortable driving in the severe conditions that may occur on this drive, it is recommended that you spend a little extra money and employ one of the private charter services available in the Vail Valley. Although some Denver-based companies also offered chartered service to Vail, their drivers often have limited experience in severe weather. Many Denver charter companies also use all season tires in the winter. If you do a little research, you should be able to find a reputable Vail based company that uses studded snow tires during the winter.
Scheduled and chartered services are available from Denver International Airport and Eagle County Regional Airport.

Champagne Powder Day on Vail Mountain
By plane[edit]
Fly into Eagle County Airport (EGE IATA) or Denver International Airport (DEN IATA).  Vail/Eagle County Airport is about 35 miles from Vail; a shared ride in a van from there to Vail will cost you about $70 per person. If you are traveling with your family or in a group, there are a number of private charter services that are also available. These are often more convenient than a shared ride service since they transport you door to door. Although you might think about renting a car, parking is expensive in Vail and most everything is in walking distance or a short ride away on the town's extensive free bus system. If you fly into Denver, you might think about renting a car, but you should be warned that the more than 100 mile trip from Denver takes you over 2 mountain passes at elevations of 11,000 and 10,600 feet. An option to get from Denver Airport to Vail is to take a private chartered service that is familiar with the drive and road conditions.
Another option from Eagle Airport is to use the county bus system (ECO). This is difficult to find: exit the airport out the front door, make a right and walk about 100 feet to the bus stop. The bus takes about 80 minutes. The bus runs from Eagle Airport through most of the towns and goes to the Vail Transportation Center. The cost in 2018 was $4 each way.
Most private transport companies quote prices of $120 to $180 each way for a trip into Vail.

By bus or shuttle[edit]
The 39.642471-106.3739911 Vail Transportation Center at 241 S Frontage Road E (between Vail Road and Vail Valley Drive) acts as the local bus station.
Several carriers offer limo, van, or bus service to and from Aspen, Denver, and other cities in Colorado ($300 one-way), or the Eagle Vail airport ($100 one-way). Greyhound will be the cheapest at $12-30 one-way with advance purchase.

Bustang links Vail with Glenwood Springs and Eagle to the west and Denver and Frisco to the east.
 ABC Shuttle, ☏ +1 (303) 761 0111, contact@abcshuttle.com. Private airport transfer service to or from DIA/Vail. (updated Feb 2023)
 Colorado Airport Express (CAE), ☏ +1 720-662-8070. Door to door private SUV and van services from the Denver International Airport to the Vail Valley. (updated Feb 2023)
 Blue SkyLimo LLC (Blue Sky Limo), 1100 N Frontage Rd W, ☏ +1 (970) 236-7578, info@blueskylimovail.com. Private car service for groups of travelers coming to Vail from Denver International, Eagle Regional, Centennial or Rocky Mountain Airport. (updated Feb 2023)
Get around[edit]
If you are staying in Vail or Lionshead, having a car will be more hindrance (parking fees) than a value.  The town is set up so you can walk between most places and the slopes.  There is also a free shuttle that will take you to the immediate surroundings and up to Beaver Creek.

By car[edit]
If you are coming from somewhere else and skiing, you can park on site. It will cost about $25 (2010) per day. Best advice arrive early (before 9AM) on busy days and you won't have problems. There are two parking garages, one in Vail and one in Lionshead. The Lionshead garage is the shortest walk to the slopes.
If the garages do fill up, you may to park on the road. The problem being that they don't let you park on the road until both garages are filled. So say you drop your friends off at Golden Peak (so they can put their kids in child care) then go back to the Vail parking lot, its full, so you then have to go park in Lionshead and take a bus back to catch your friends.
For those doing child care there is also a ($25/day) valet parking at Golden Peak, cheaper to park at the main Vail garage and walk (5 mins). Most Hotels in Vail, (see: upscale) will provide you with a free shuttle, just ask before you arrive.
Most major car-rental firms are located at Denver International Airport and some in Eagle Regional Airport. Once you arrive in Vail, there is a free in-town bus system.

 Vail Transit. It is completely free and the buses go from East Vail to West Vail every 30 min or so. The best part is that it's they run til 2AM everyday. Free. 
See[edit]
 Colorado Ski and Snowboard Museum. Might be interesting. 
39.5463-106.24161 Shrine Pass. 
Do[edit]
The Eagle Bahn Gondola transports people to the top of Vail Mountain summer and winter.
Winter sports[edit]
Ski/snowboard
Lift Tickets $199 (2018 prices) a day too steep?  Want to save some money?  Well there are a couple of ways, but they are not easy:

Use of the snow.com or vail.com website has seven day advance internet purchases with highly discounted rates.
Colorado Pass - The Colorado Pass provides unlimited slope access at Breckenridge, Keystone and A-Basin, as well as 10 days' access to the lifts at Vail or Beaver Creek. The Colorado Pass costs $449 (2008).  It is blocked out on certain dates.
eBay - Typically for $10 you can buy a 2 for 1 coupon that was issued somewhere in the country.  There have been counterfeits so your mileage may vary.
Grocery stores - Discounted tickets for Vail are no longer available at grocery stores on Denver as they once were.
Locals - If you have friends in Vail, and they have a season pass, they get 5 "Buddy Passes" that allow you to ski for $35 a day, so make some friends, and ski for less.
Avoid the lines
If you can get on the mountain a little earlier (before 9:30AM) than everyone else you can stay ahead of the crowds and never wait in a line more than 5 minutes.  Here are some suggested starting routes:

Favorite: Start at golden peak, and take the lift past the first drop off to the top.  Get off and take lift 11 (Northwoods) to the very top of the Mt.  From there drop into China Bowl or go off to Blue Sky basin.  Come back to the front after noon and you'll see a lot of the mountain.
Starting at Vail Village.  If the Vista-Bahn is really full, take the little two seater chair up.
They do not run the two seater chair, except for races.
Ski over to Golden Peak and follow along above.
Lionshead - Don't wait for the gondola, take the quad chair.  Ski over to the far side (the far side can be much shorter) of lift 2 and up.
Avoid: Chair 4 from mid-vail.  Always crowded.  Chair 11 can get crowded.  Check the status boards for the back bowl lift and game creek bowl lifts before going into each as they can fill up and there is only one chair in each bowl.
Ski & snowboard equipment rental:
Vail resort has a huge range of ski and snowboard rental options. Vail's village is spread over a huge area from Lionshead, Vail Village and Golden Peak, so it is best to source your ski or snowboard rental close to your hotel or even better close to the lifts.

Located at the base of the ski slopes, Pirate Ship Park has delighted generations of children in Vail.
Here are just a few of the many ski rental stores found in Vail.

 Aalta Sports. 
 Breeze Ski Rentals (Lionshead Vail). 
 Black Tie Ski Rentals. 
 Charter Sports. 
 Christy Sports. 
 Double Diamond Ski Shop (Lionshead). 
 Gravity Jones Ski Werks. 
 Pepi Sports. 
 Ski Base Inc. 
 Troy's Ski Shop. 
 Vail Mountain Adventure Center. 
 Vail Sports. 
 Rentskis. 
 Burton - Arrabelle. Snowboards. 
 One Track Mind. Snowboards. 
You can also book your Vail ski or snowboard rental online before you leave possibly saving you time in the rental store and even some money as most offer discounts for pre-booking. Here are the main ski rentals stores that offer online booking service;

 Black Tie. Also offers full delivery service to your accommodation. 
 Breeze Rentals. 
 Charter Sports. 
 Christy Sports. 
 Double Diamond Ski Shop. 
 Premier Ski Delivery. Also provides a full delivery service to your accommodation 
 Rentskis. 
Child care: Vail has an excellent child-care center for all ages of kids. For babies to toddlers, the nursery provides great, on mountain, care.  As young as 3 years old the Ski School can really teach your kids to ski and give them a fun day too (and free you up to ski with your spouse).  All this does not come cheap, but you get a good quality product and don't have to worry about your kids.
Book early (like a month before you get there) for the nursery.  They do fill up.

 Ride the Gondola. The Gondola is free for foot traffic after 2PM.  Before 2PM the ticket price is $24 for adults (2009).  It is a good way to get the non-skiers and the kids up to the top. 
 Adventure Ridge. A fun place to bring kids or friends who don't like to ski! Activities include: ski-biking, kids' snowmobile track and tubing. 
 Vail Snowmobiling Tours & Rentals. Take a guided snowmobiling tour in Vail's Backcountry or set out atop Vail Pass on an unguided snowmobile rental. 
Summer[edit]
Condos and shops in Lionshead. Designers work hard to maintain a European aesthetic to the resort
Mountain bike: In the off season, Mountain Bike rentals and lift tickets are available for a reasonable cost. Ride the lift up to the top and bike your way down, taking in thrills, scenery, and encounters with wildlife. Trails are rated by difficulty and are well-maintained. It is certainly easy and fun to ride the gondola up and ride the bike down.

 Vail Bike Tech. Located on the Lionshead Mall and offers mountain bike (and ski) rentals. 
 Venture Sports (in Avon), ☏ +1 970-949-1318. Full service bike shop. 
 Mountain Pedaler of Vail. A great bike pro shop. 
 Gondola Ride. As of summer of 2022 it was $52 to ride the Gondola to the top of the mountain. At the top there is an outside bar with the worlds greatest view, and a pretty pricey grill (check times). You can get a $15 discount at the grill with a $5 coupon. The burger is excellent. If you want a work out and want to save the money walk up to the top. The Gondola is always a free ride down! The hike will take you about 1-2 hours (depending on fitness). Take the Berry Picker trail from Lionshead. (updated Oct 2022)
 Piney Lake. A gorgeous view awaits you if you brave the 12 mile dirt road up to the Piney Lake. You can also grab some grub or rent a boat at the Piney River Ranch. 
In the Vail Valley[edit]
 Lakota Guides, ☏ +1 970-845-RAFT (7238). A world class outfit based in Vail and offers rafting on the Eagle, Colorado, and Arkansas River. Door-to-door transportation from your hotel is usually included. Also offers UniMog off-road tours and night vision raft trips on the Upper Colorado. 
 Nova Guides. Based between Vail and Leadville and offers trips on the Eagle, Colorado, and Arkansas River. Door-to-door transportation from your hotel is usually included. Also offers jeep tours, and winter activities. 
 Timberline Tours. Based in the town of Eagle and offers trips on the Eagle, Colorado, and Arkansas River. Door-to-door transportation from your hotel is usually included. Also offers jeep tours. Timverline Tours also offers group chartered transportation services. Since the company uses its busses during the day for rafting trips, their seats may often be wet for early evening movements. 
Summer horseback riding at Piney River Ranch.
Rafting[edit]
Vail is a great location to plan some rafting adventures.  The Eagle River runs through the Vail Valley -- it offers outstanding rafting during its short season (typically May & June, sometimes into July). The Colorado River is just downvalley and offers ample opportunity, especially during summer months, because it has such a reliable water source.  The stretch above and through Glenwood Springs is a favorite hot-weather summer family ride.  The Arkansas River is about an hour away, and offers several famous whitewater stretches as well.

 Whitewater Rafting, LLC. Located on the Colorado River down valley in Glenwood Springs. 
 Breckenridge Whitewater Rafting, toll-free: +1-800-507-7703. In the Frisco-Dillon area and runs the Arkansas, Eagle, and Colorado Rive. 
 Colorado River Runs, toll-free: +1-800-826-1081. Vail area outfit. 
 Rock Gardens Rafting. They specialize in family float trips down the milder waters of the Colorado or Roaring Fork Rivers. They also offer fun jeep tours on the nearby flat-tops. 
 Dvorak Expeditions. Specializes in longer and multi-day trips in rivers across Colorado. They do really neat Yoga, classical music (a raft with a quartet goes along] and fly-fishing multi-day trips. 
Golf[edit]
The Vail Valley has half a dozen nice golf courses.

 Eagle Ranch Golf Course. Eagle Ranch Golf Course is an Arnold Palmer Signature Design. The course plays through the Brush Creek Valley and offers panoramic views of the Colorado Rockies on every hole. 
39.6308-106.95451 Cotton Ranch Golf Club, 530 Cotton Ranch Dr. Purchased by the town of Gypsum in 2010, this municipal golf course is an 18-hole championship course designed by Pete Dye. (updated May 2016)
 Vail Golf Club. Located in East Vail. 
 Eagle-Vail Golf Course. 
 Beaver Creek Golf Course. 
 Arrowhead Golf Course. 
 Singletree Golf Course. 
Disc golf[edit]
The Vail Valley has several disc golf courses.

 Adventure Ridge. Course begins just below west side of the Eagle's Nest. Front nine are shorter and more open while back nine are much more rugged, play through the woods and feature some intense elevation changes. 
Dude ranches[edit]
The Vail area has many places to ride a horse.

 Black Mountain Colorado Dude Ranch. Week-long, all-inclusive vacations living on a full-service Texas Longhorn cattle ranch north of Vail. 
Buy[edit]
A House Finch clings to a feeder at the Vail Nature Center in Ford Park.
Vail has all your typical resort shops.

 The Golden Bear. A uniquely Vail jewelry store known for its line of jewelry featuring a (duh) Golden Bear. 
Eat[edit]
Budget[edit]
There are many options to eat in both Vail Village and Lionshead. Another good idea is to pack a lunch, or grill your own burgers or hot dogs at the free public bbq at Blue Sky Basin.

 Wildwood Shelter. Best value on the mountain is the Combo at the Wildwood shelter.  $11 for a great barbeque beef or pork sandwich, soup and side.  Plus Wildwood is much smaller than most of the other places on mountain so you can find your group.  And there is a good view. 
 Two Elk. This place has beautiful architecture (a giant log structure) nice furniture, but has expensive, average food.  See it once then head to Wildwood for your next meal. 
 Vail Grocery Delivery, Inside City Market Vail. Offers pre-arrival grocery delivery for guests staying in Vail and Beaver Creek. 
Mid-range[edit]
 The Westside Cafe. A Vail restaurants staple. Do not miss this classic locals place. 
 Bart & Yetis. A favorite and a great place to find 3rd generation locals. Bart & Yetis is in Lionshead Village, a short intown bus ride from the covered bridge. 
 Pazzo's Pizza. A famous pizza joint in Vail. 
 The Tap Room at Bridge Street. Located on the second floor of the Vista Bahn Building, the Tap Room is a must for apres ski! Not only is it a nice place to go for a beer, but the food is worth a stop as well. Pretty inexpensive, the Tap Room typically has specials during the week such as all-you-can-eat wings--check the free local paper, The Vail Daily, for details. 
 Vendetta's Italian Restaurant. Typical Italian food for about $20 a plate. 
Splurge[edit]
 Restaurant Kelly Liken, Suite 100, 12 Vail Rd, ☏ +1 970-479-0175. American cuisine featuring ingredients that are harvested locally and in season. 
 Game Creek Restaurant. Typically, at a place with great views and the requirement to take a snow cat (winter) or (Suburban) to get there you would dismiss it as a tourist-trap, pay for the view type of place.  Well the Game Creek Restaurant is not, it actually has the food and service to back it up.  It is a great dinner, in a very nice (if you like modern-Bavarian style) setting, with a great view. 
 La Tour, 122 East Meadow Dr, ☏ +1 970-476-4403. Great French food, consistently excellent. 
 Larkspur Restaurant. Contemporary American cuisine, potato croutons highly recommended 
 The Savory Inn, 2405 Elliott Ranch Rd, ☏ +1 970-476-1304. For a great time, eat amazing food and learn some new culinary techniques. (And drink some vino!) Vail's best kept secret! 
 [dead link] Sweet Basil, 193 Gore Creek Dr, ☏ +1 970 476-0125. Consistent quality. Service is impeccable. Great food. 
Near Vail[edit]
If you want to avoid the hustle and bustle of the town of Vail (well sort of, you'll still have to wait but at least you see something a little more local) then try some of these spots:

Eagle-Vail[edit]
39.6227-106.47941 Route 6 Cafe, 40801 U.S. Highway 6, ☏ +1 970 949-6393. Great local breakfast, lunch and dinner place. There is also live entertainment on weekend nights. On weekends the place fills up by 9AM, weekdays are usually no problem. (updated May 2016)
Minturn[edit]
 Minturn Saloon, 146 Main Street, Minturn lat=. Tremendous atmosphere Mexican restaurant in a town called Minturn about 15 minutes drive from Vail. Prepare to wait for dinner, but thats OK cause the bar has a fireplace and serves margaritas (of course). 
Edwards[edit]
 Gas House, ☏ +1 970 926-3613. 34129 Highway 6, Edwards. In Edwards Colorado, another 10 minutes west of Minturn. Want meat, go here! Lots of animal heads on the wall. 
 Gore Range Brewery. Gore Range is a fun place to eat-- lively atmosphere, excellent beer and food to match. 
 Larkburger. Larkburger has a very limited menu, but they are good at what they do. A very casual, order-at-the-counter burger joint, kids as well as adults will be happy with the food. Fries are highly recommended! 
Drink[edit]
 The Club (top of Bridge St.), ☏ +1 970-479-0556. Think fraternity party, that's the club. 
 Garfinkel's (at the base of the gondola in Lionshead). Great deck to enjoy the afternoon sun. 
 The George (at the Covered Bridge, Vail Village). Good Irish style pub. 
 The Red Lion. The place for après-ski in Vail.  Get there early for an outside table. 
Sleep[edit]
Budget[edit]
Mid-range[edit]
 Manor Vail Lodge, 595 East Vail Valley Dr, toll-free: +1-800-950-8245. Offers ski lodging accommodations including rooms, suites and condos, plus venues for weddings & meetings, dining facilities & vacation packages. 
 Lion Square Lodge at The Gondola, 660 West Lionshead Pl, toll-free: +1-800-525-1943. Property has hotel rooms, 1-, 2-, 3- and 5-bedroom condominiums. Many choose Lion Square Lodge because of its ski-in/ski-out accommodations. It offers a pool, hot tubs, a sauna, fitness center and free high-speed Internet. 
 Montaneros Condominiums, 641 West Lionshead Circle, toll-free: +1-800-525-1891. Property has 1-, 2-, 3- and 4-bedroom condominiums with full kitchens, a living room, a private balcony and a fireplace. 
 Antlers Condominiums and Conference Center, 680 West Lionshead Pl, toll-free: +1-800-843-8245. 150 yards from ski lifts. Studios up to 4-bedroom condominiums. Pets accepted in some units, free high-speed internet, free underground parking. 
 Evergreen Lodge, 250 S. Frontage Rd, toll-free: +1-800-284-VAIL (8245). Between Lionshead and Vail Village. Free high speed internet. 
 Gore Creek Properties Vail, 3971 Bighorn Rd, toll-free: +1-800-967-3500. Condominium, private home, and townhouse rentals in Vail. Variety of price ranges. 
 Lodge at Lionshead. Condominiums near gondola and ski school. Features heated outdoor pools, hot tub, saunas, fitness center, concierge services & free Wi-Fi. 
 The Savory Inn & Cooking School of Vail. Gourmet breakfasts, hot tub, romantic rooms. 
 Vail Residences At Hotel Talisa, 1300 Westhaven Dr (at the base of Vail Mountain along the banks of Gore Creek), toll-free: +1-800-282-4183. AAA Four-Diamond ski resort that features ski-in/ski-out accommodations, private condos, and vacation rentals. Other amenities and services include a spa, meeting facilities, in-house rental shop and ski concierge, a building-side ski lift, and fine dining options. (updated May 2019)
 Vail Marriott Mountain Resort, 715 West Lionshead Circle, ☏ +1 970-476-4444. Vail Marriott Mountain Resort nestled at the base of Vail Mountain. $399. 
39.513135-106.3682751 Green Bridge Inn, 104 Water St, Red Cliff, ☏ +1 970-827-5228. 14 guest rooms. Free Wi-fi, but no cell phone service because of its location. From $200/night. (updated Feb 2023)
 Vail Racquet Club Mountain Resort (Vail Racquet Cllub), 4695 Vail Racquet Club Drive, ☏ +1 970 476-4840, info@vailracquetclub.com. 20 acre resort property in the Vail Valley, nestled against the mountains, the resort allows you to experience the full allure of the Rocky Mountains. (updated Sep 2023)
Splurge[edit]
 The Lodge at Vail, 174 East Gore Creek Dr (at the base of Vail Mountain), ☏ +1 970-476-5011. If you have more money than you know what to do with, you can stay here. The Lodge at Vail combines the elegance of an alpine inn with the amenities and service you'd normally expect at modern high-end hotels. The AAA Four Diamond lodge features two restaurants, a 7,725-square-foot spa, exercise room, outdoor pool, piano bar, ski rental and ski storage. 
39.642718-106.3781532 The Sebastian - Vail, 16 Vail Rd (Exit 176 from Interstate 70, Take Vail Road from the round-a-bout. The hotel is the first building on the left), ☏ +1 970-477-8000. Check-in: 4PM, check-out: 11AM. A hotel and private residence club. Formerly the Vail Plaza Hotel, this hotel's amenities include flat screen HDLCD TV with premium channels, iPod/iPad docking station, DVD/Blu-Ray players, a mini refrigerator, individually controlled HVAC and high speed wireless internet access. On-site are a spa and three restaurants. $605+ (winter rates). 
 Vail Mountain Lodge & Spa, 352 E. Meadow Dr (near the Covered Bridge), ☏ +1 970-476-0700. A cozy, beautiful boutique hotel with 20 lodge rooms and seven two and three bedroom condominiums. Each lodge room features free wifi, a feather king bed or two feather queen beds, iPod docking station, a gas fireplace, heated stone tile floor in the bathroom, a large soaking tub and separate glass shower, and free AVEDA products.  Condominiums are equipped with washer/dryer, sleeper sofa, spacious kitchens with premium appliances, and balconies for mountain-view units. You can enjoy free access to the Vail Athletic Club, an 18,000 square foot state-of-the-art private facility within the hotel that includes a yoga studio, a pilates studio, cardio equipment, weights, Vail's only indoor climbing wall, steam room, sauna, and jacuzzi. Also available are two co-ed outdoor jacuzzis overlooking Gore Creek and the ski mountain. Also on property is the Spa at Vail Mountain Lodge, a full-service facility offering facials, massages, unique signature treatments, natural nail services and other scrubs and wraps. Additionally, there is The Vitality Center, a new wellness center with medical experts. One of Vail's top restaurants, Terra Bistro, is also in the hotel and provides a large free breakfast to hotel guests during peak seasons (winter and summer). 
Go next[edit]
See above in the Eat section for some towns near Vail.
Beaver Creek Beaver Creek is right down the valley.
Glenwood Springs - A beautiful 1 hour drive from Vail and you can enjoy their famous Hot Springs when you arrive.
Aspen - A 1 hr 15 min-hour drive away.
Colorado's Wine Country - Colorado is home to over 70 wineries and its own indigenous vineyards. Wine lovers can enjoy several scenic day trips from Vail to many of the small towns that grow their own grapes. These lovely little communities include Montrose, Palisade, Paonia  and Hotchkiss, as well as the city of Grand Junction.


Routes through Vail




Grand Junction ← Eagle ←

 W  E 

→ Copper Mountain → Denver








This city travel guide to Vail is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Vail&oldid=4877398"