
Val d'Isere is a resort in the French Alps. It is linked to Tignes.


Get in[edit]
By train[edit]
The nearest train station is Bourg-Saint-Maurice, which is served by TGV and local services. In the winter months, additional services operate; Eurostars direct from London, Thalys trains from Europe, and the ski train sleeper from Paris. This is some 35 km away however, so coach services provide the onward connection; the journey takes about 1 hour 15 minutes in good weather.

By car[edit]
If you are driving to Val D'Isere be aware that you may be required to equip your car with snowchains. During winter it is not possible to access Val D'Isere from south, coming from Susa or Modane, since the Iserian alpine pass is then closed.

By plane[edit]
Geneva Cointrin Airport, 180 km from Val d'Isère, Transfer by bus is 4 hr 30 min
Lyon Saint Exupéry Airport, 220 km from Val d'Isère, Transfer by bus is 3 hr 30 min
Chambéry airport, 130 km from Val d'Isère, Transfer by bus is 3 hr 30 min
Grenoble airport, 210 km from Val d'Isère
Get around[edit]
A completely free bus services runs in the village to transport skiiers and residents around. In the winter season buses run every 5 minutes from 08:00; in the summer they run every half an hour. The village centre is pedestrian only.

See[edit]
The town centre is very attractive and lively; the architecture in the town is very pleasing. Of course, the resort's natural assets are its best - the views of the Alps are always stunning.

Do[edit]
Winter sports[edit]
The resort is world-renowned for the amount of lift-served off-piste it offers; in particular, intermediates and experts are well served. For beginners, there are several schools and guides. There is a common pass for the Espace Killy area providing access to slopes in Tignes and Val D'Isere.
The resort has 300 km of piste, of which 26 km is served by snowmaking equipment. 15% of pistes are green, 46% blue, 27% red and 12% black.
In addition, Val d'Isere is one of the highest resorts in Europe (1850 m), which means that there is a greater chance of better snow.  It is also connected to Tignes (2100 m), which is even higher.

Summer sports[edit]
During the summer, the resort is open for mountain biking and hiking.

Buy[edit]
Ski equipment and rental is available.

Eat[edit]
Loads of different restaurants - most feature the local specialities of fondue, raclette and braserade. 

 The Lodge. 
 Taverne d'Alsace. 
 Casa Scara. 
Drink[edit]
As one of the apres ski capitals of the Alps - Val has plenty of establishments to keep you occupied! 

 Blue Note. 
 Cafe Face. 
 Dick's Tea Bar. 
 Moris Pub. 
 Pacific Bar. 
 Saloon. 
 Victor's. 
Sleep[edit]
There are several quaint hotels, apartment rentals and chalets available up to 4-star. The night life in the resort is very good.
There are many accommodation choices.  Perhaps the best known hotel is the Hotel Christiana, which is very close to the lifts and the ski schools.

 Chalet Aquilina (Chalets in Val d'Isere), Appt 208, Residence L'Aquila, ☏ +33457159131, chalets@powderwhite.com. Sleeps up to 6 guests. Central location close to Solaise & Bellevarde main ski lifts which links to Espace Killy cicuit. Aquilina has a high standard of finish with 3 bedrooms, 2 bath/shower & open living area with balcony overlooking lifts and La Face World Championship run. Facilities include Internet, TV, parking, ski & boot room. Pets allowed. 
45.4493016.9790621 Hotel Avenue Lodge, Avenue Olympique (near place Jacques Moufflier), ☏ +33 4 79 00 67 67, contact@hotelavenuelodge.com. Located on the most beautiful avenue in Val d'Isère, the Hotel with lounge bar, pro shop, spa, large lounge area with a fireplace and spacious bathrooms. €330-695. 
Le Chardon Mountain Lodges.
 Pierre & Vacances residence Les Balcons de Bellevarde, ☏ +33 1 58 21 55 84. A fully refurbished, south facing residence that enjoys magnificent panormic views of the resort and the slopes. The residence has ski in/ski out facilities, a heatroom ski room and lockers. The apartments are comfortable and welcoming and all have duvets as standard. 
 Résidences MGM Les Chalets du Laisinant, ☏ +33 870 026 7144. Located in the Laisinant district at the foot of the 'Mattis' and 'L' runs at Val d'Isere. Has 12 chalet-style apartments that are spacious, comfortable and peaceful. A free shuttle service (stop 50 m from residence) provides an easy access to the resort centre 1 km away. Bakery service available. 
 Residence Maeva La Daille Soleil. In the area of Eclose, this south-facing building enjoys the longest hours of sunshine. The apartments all have a balcony and the majority have a view of the Massif de l'Oisans. A lift (50 m away) enables the runs and the centre of the resort to be reached quickly. 
Go next[edit]
For major shopping, Geneva is about 2 hours away in car, 4 by train. Lyon is about 4 hours by car, 4 hours by train. For lesser needs, Bourg-Saint-Maurice has a cinema and outdoor and indoor swimming pool.






This city travel guide to Val-d'Isère is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Val-d%27Isère&oldid=3921511"