
Vitré (Breton: Gwitreg; Gallo: Vitræ) is a town in the département of Ille-et-Vilaine, in the region of Brittany, France. Vitré lies on the edge of Brittany, near Normandy Maine and Anjou. The town has been designated a ville d'art et d'histoire, a town of artistic and historic significance, by the Ministry of Culture in recognition of its rich cultural heritage.


Understand[edit]
Vitré is a medieval town very beautiful with a rich cultural heritage. It is a very good example of the medieval cities with castles, churches, very old houses (15th century), historic monuments, parks and nature.
The site of Vitré was occupied in Gallo-Roman times. The name Vitré comes from the Gallo-Roman name "Victor" or "Victrix", after the owner of a farm in the region. The year 1000 marked the formal birth of Vitré, when the duke of Brittany Geoffrey I bestowed feudal powers upon Riwallon Le Vicaire, who was charged with keeping this strategic area as a buffer zone of the "Marches of Brittany".

Get in[edit]
Located east of Brittany, the city of Vitré is crossed by the expressway which prolongs motorway A 11, while the motorway of the Estuaries. As in the whole of the Ille-et-Vilaine département, the communes of the country of Vitré are accessible by these expressways (Paris - Rennes).
The Station of Vitré has a lot of trains' stops. The easiest way to get to Vitré from Paris is through Gare Montparnasse. There are trains almost a few per day and the ride is 1hrs and 56 min.
The airport is in Rennes - Saint-Jacques (40 km ≈ 25 miles).

Get around[edit]
Vitré is unique in that urban transportation is free for all routes.

See[edit]
Castles[edit]
Castle of Vitré (11th-20th century)
Remparts, Claviers' Tower, Bridole's Tower
Rochers-Sévigné Castle
Château-Marie (17th century)
Hôtel Ringues de la Troussanais (Renaissance)
Medieval streets (Beaudrairie, Poterie, d'Embas, etc.) and places (Marchix, Station, Château, Notre-Dame, etc.)
Religious heritage[edit]
Saint-Nicolas Chapel (near Castle of Vitré)
Notre-Dame Church (14th century) gothic
Tower of the ancient Saint-Martin's Church (15th century)
Saint-Martin Church (19th century)
Sainte-Croix Church (17th-19th century)
Protestant Church
Convent of Bénédictins (Tribunal)
Convent of Augustins (17th century)
Chapels, calvaries situated in the city and countryside
Other monuments[edit]
Menhir "La Pierre Blanche" (Beauvais Road to Pocé-les-Bois)
Hôtel Sévigné-Nétumières (18th Century)
The Station (19th century)
Old barracks of 70e régiment d'infanterie
The Grand Park
Do[edit]
Visit the city, museums, religious heritage, golf, etc.

Buy[edit]
Souvenirs of Vitré

Eat[edit]
Traditional cuisine[edit]
 Le Potager, 5 Place du Général Leclerc. 
 La Soupe aux Choux, 32 Rue Notre-Dame. 
 Le Petit Pressoir, 20 Rue de Paris. 
 Au Vieux Vitré (dans le centre historique), 1 are Embas. 
 Restaurant Le Chêne Vert, 2 Place du Général de Gaulle. 
 Restaurant Le Saint Yves, 1 Place Saint-Yves. 
 Restaurant l'Espérance (référence locale pour les grands banquets), 21 bd Rochers. 
 Le Coligny, 5 Place de la République. 
Regional cuisine[edit]
 Le Pichet, 17 Boulevard de Laval. 
 Auberge Saint Louis, 31 rue Notre-Dame. Site classé XVe siècle, terrasse, à deux pas du Château et près de l'Église Notre-Dame. Situé sous les porches 
 La Taverne de l'Ecu, 12 Rue Beaudrairie. Cadre médiéval du 16 ème siècle 
Crêperies[edit]
 La Gavotte, 7 Rue des Augustins. (au pied du château, produits biologiques et ambiance bretonne 
 L'Auberge du Château, 34 Rue d'Embas. Maison à pan de bois du XVe siècle, au pied des anciennes fortifications 
 Crêperie La Gourmandise, 26 Rue Embas. 
 La Fleur de Sel, 4 Rue Notre Dame. 
 Crêperie des Arts, 1 Rue Duguesclin. 
Fast food[edit]
 Mac Donald's, Place Villajoyosa (Forum de la Trémoïlle). 
 Varto Kebab, 4 rue Duguesclin. 
International cuisine[edit]
 Hao Heng, 9 Rue Garengeot. Chinese 
 La Médina, 3 Place Notre-Dame. Moroccan 
 Pizzeria L'Arlequin, 25 are Beaudrairie. 
 L'Ecuyer, 2 Rue Garangeot. 
Drink[edit]
 La Source, Le Bouffort (Direction La Guerche-de-Bretagne). Nightclub 
 Le Jack Daniel's, 14 Rue de Brest (direction Rennes et Fougères). Nightclub 
 Bressañ Pub, 3 Rue de la Trémoïlle. Nightclub decked out as a medieval building. 
 Le Chêne Vert, 2 place du Général de Gaulle. 
 Les Voyageurs, 28 rue Garengeot. 
 Le France, 9 place du Général de Gaulle. 
 L'Hakuna, 26 rue Neuve A front of gare-station, very nice bar for a nice moment.. 
 Le Guy XVI, 24 Rue Embas. 
 Le Machin Truk, 25 Rue Embas. Popular student bar 
 L'Aston Bar, 7 Rue Embas. 
 Le Billy's Bar, 44 Rue Poterie. 
 Ewan Café, 32 Rue Poterie. 
 Le Triskell, 26 Rue Notre Dame. 
 Le Chat Noir, 24 Rue Notre Dame. 15th century interior 
Sleep[edit]
 Hôtel du Château, 5 Rue Rallon. 
 Hôtel Ibis, Boulevard Châteaubriant. 
 Hôtel Le Minotel, 47 Rue Poterie. 
 Hôtel Le Petit Billot, 5 place du Général Leclerc. 
 Hôtel Restaurant La Grenouillère, Route Ernée (RD 777). 
 Hôtel-Restaurant L'Espérance, 21 boulevard des Rochers. 
Go next[edit]
It is fairly easy to travel in France, therefore it would be clever to take advantage of the beautiful cities and coastal scenery in Brittany (Rennes, Dinan, Fougères). Saint-Malo, a wonderful coastal town on the English Channel, is only 45 minutes by TGV and usually costs less than €10. Buses are also available for less, but take a bit longer.







This city travel guide to Vitré is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Vitré&oldid=4886342"