
Vöcklabruck is a small (approximately 12000 inhabitants) town in Upper Austria. Vöcklabruck is the capital city of the region with the same name. To a visitor the city may appear neat, proud, superficial and conservative.


Understand[edit]
Vöcklabruck has many shops as well as services and schools. It was chosen for Europäisches Schützentreffen (the European Meeting of Marksmen) in 2003, and has played host to other events such as the Internationale Musiktage (International Music Gathering), Landesgartenschau (provincial garden show) 2007, and an Erdbeerfest (strawberry festival).
The flea market for antiques, materials, etc. is usually held on Fridays. Alongside this, food markets selling bread, fish, flowers, fruit, meat, sausages and vegetables, take place every Wednesday and Saturday morning.

Get in[edit]
You can arrive by train from Attnang, Linz & Salzburg. The station is located in Bahnhofstrasse 17, 5 minutes walk to the town center and is serviced by ÖBB (Austrian Rail). Arriving by car is easy too, you can leave the highway A1 Regau if you drive from West Linz, or Seewalchen if you drive from East Salzburg.

Get around[edit]
You can easily walk or cycle around town. There are two sorts of buses: Some called Stadtbus stay in town, the rest goes to other places in Upper Austria. A ticket for Stadtbus costs €0.90, a ticket that is valid a day €1.80. Reduced tickets for elderly people, people under eighteen and for families are available. Dogs need a reduced ticket.

See[edit]
Situated on a small hill inside the town there is the church of Schöndorf, a somewhat interesting a unique mixture of different styles, maybe interesting to geeks of architecture. Maybe you want to visit the town park, hey, they even have a pond with ducks!
Main sights:
In the town square's tower, frescos discovered in the 1960s. They date from 1502 and were painted by Tyrolean Jörg Kölderer.
Dörflkirche/Ägidiuskirche' (St. Giles' Church), Baroque church constructed between 1688–1691.
Schöndorfer Kirche, an early medieval fortified church, built before 824.
Museum Heimathaus with Wolfsegg Iron

Do[edit]
You can do walks in the surrounding forests, also mountainbiking is a valid option. Better still, in summer, take a bus to the surrounding lakes Attersee and Traunsee.

Buy[edit]
Eat[edit]
There are some local restaurants, gasthaus, cafes and bars.
Espresso am Stadtplatz, Hotel Auerhahn, Cafe zur Brücke, Pizzeria Venezia, City Cafe-Restaurant, Vöcklabruckerhof, Schillerhof, McDonald's, Leiner-Cafe, Resto-Lutz.
There are some pizza delivery services, too.

Drink[edit]
Nightlife in the town is worth to spend. You can find some actual shows at Stadtsaal Voecklabruck, is in Stadtplatz 22. Every year there is about 50 events have been held there.
If you want a night out, there are some local bars, cafes and restaurants. You can try to find something in the surrounding countryside, too.

 Mosquito, office@mosquito-musikclub.com. Linzerstrasse 4 4850 Timelkam. F and Sa 21.30PM-4AM. Music from classic rock to electronic. Young people, grunger, raver, hippies. Drinks are expensive and you always have to pay entrance till 02:00 plus minus half an hour. But don't ask for free entrance, once the doorkeeper knows that you don't want to pay he wouldn't let you in for free, even after 02:00. The Mosquito used to be called Gei and everyone still sticks to this name. 
Sleep[edit]
Connect[edit]
The phone area code of the town Vöcklabruck is 07672.
The time zone is CET/CEST (UTC+1/+2).
The licence plate is VB.
The postal code is 4840.

Go next[edit]
Vöcklabruck is a good starting point if you want to discover the countryside around lakes Attersee, Traunsee,Mondsee, Wolfgangsee and other cities Gmunden, Wels, Bad Ischl, Steyr. The city is located between Linz and Salzburg, about 239 km from Vienna.



Routes through Vöcklabruck




END ← Salzburg ←

 W  E 

→ Linz → Amstetten


END ← Salzburg ←

 W  E 

→ Wels → Linz








This city travel guide to Vöcklabruck is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Vöcklabruck&oldid=4539903"