

West Hartford
West Hartford is a town in Connecticut.


Understand[edit]
West Hartford’s motto:  Where City Style meets Village Charm. This large town is a suburb of Hartford.  West Hartford is known best for its safe neighborhoods, rich history and culture as well as its booming shopping and dining districts. West Hartford has a vibrant downtown called West Hartford Center which is also home to Blue Back Square, where there is much fun to be had.
West Hartford is approximately 100 miles southwest of Boston.  and 100 miles northeast of New York City.

Get in[edit]
Bradley International Airport is located in nearby Windsor Locks. This airport is less than a half hour away from West Hartford.

Get around[edit]
Unfortunately, due to the lack of public transportation in West Hartford the easiest way to get around is with a car.

 Thrifty Car Rental, 24 Andover Dr, ☏ +1 860 241-0040. 
 Enterprise, 160 Park Road, ☏ +1 860 232-6665. 
See[edit]
The Noah Webster House
A cow
 The Children's Museum, 950 Trout Brook Dr, ☏ +1 860-231-2824. The former science center of Connecticut in West Hartford has hands-on exhibits, a planetarium and mini zoo designed for grades k-6. Founded in 1927, the museum has a mission to inspire and educate children aged twelve and under. Their saying is: “Igniting Curiosity Through Science and Nature.” The Children’s Museum is the largest in the state and one of the nation's oldest. The Children’s Museum also houses Connecticut’s largest space theater, the Gengras Planetarium. One of the most popular exhibits includes a wildlife sanctuary that supports a habitat of over seventy exotic animals from around the world. In 2007, the Children’s Museum served more than 200,000 students, families, and groups through its exhibits, programs and activities. 
 The Noah Webster House, 227 South Main Street, ☏ +1 860-521-5362. Noah Webster is best remembered for being the author of the Webster American Dictionary. He is also the author of another famous book, the Blue Back Speller for which the West Hartford town center is now named after. Together with the West Hartford Historical Society and the Noah Webster house, visitors can explore and discover a man’s vision and his impact on American culture. 
 Cow Parade. Has been a unique way to raise money for various charities in West Hartford has added character throughout the town. It’s hard not to notice the five-foot cows that are placed randomly in front of homes and businesses in West Hartford. Over fifty cows were created by artists statewide benefiting Nutmeg Big Brothers Big Sisters, Make- A-Wish of Connecticut and the West Hartford Library Foundation, along with dozens of other local non-profit organizations. 
Do[edit]
 West Hartford Symphony Orchestra. Has events running all year. The orchestra is made up of talented people of all ages, from all walks of life, all bound together by a common devotion to the art of music. Most WHSO events take place at the West Hartford Meeting and Conference Center located in West Hartford’s Town Hall. 
 Cinépolis, 42 South Main Street, ☏ +1 860 236-4111. This theater brings style and elegance back to the movie going experience. (updated Sep 2016)
Movies & Mimosas - See the best classic films on the big screen and enjoy mimosas before or during the film.
 West Hartford Reservoir. A nature lover’s dream with thousands of acres of beautiful forestland with more than 30 miles of paved roads for joggers and bicyclists. There are also different levels of hiking trails. Seasonal activities include accessible picnic groves, cross-country skiing and snow shoeing. 
 Elizabeth Park, Bounded by Asylum Avenue and Prospect Avenue. Beautiful and large park in the west end equipped with gardens, gazebos, a restaurant and trails. The rose garden is also not to be missed. (updated Sep 2015)
 Park Road Playhouse, 266 Park Road. A variety of plays throughout the year. Since its opening in 2001 it has earned the title of Best Community Theater for three consecutive years. 
Buy[edit]
There are two major areas to find shopping in West Hartford.

 Westfarms Mall. Intersection of I-84 and Route 9. Westfarms Mall includes New England's first Nordstrom department store. Westfarms Mall also features 160 fine shops and services. 
 Blue Back Square, 65 Memorial Rd, ☏ +1 860-882-0678. One of the latest shopping plazas to show up in West Hartford. Blueback offers a variety of shops, such as Whole Foods, REI, and Fleming's Prime Steakhouse. The plaza was named after the Blueback Speller, by Noah Webster, who was once a West Hartford Resident. 
Eat[edit]
West Hartford is known for its wide variety of restaurants.

 The Elbow Room, 986 Farmington Ave. This spot has feeling of a corner cafe with a menu of an upscale American restaurant. 
 Harry's Pizza, 1003 Farmington Ave, ☏ +1 860-321-7166. A family owned neighborhood pizza restaurant and a West Harford favorite. 
 Max's Oyster Bar, 964 Farmington Ave. Features modern renditions of classic American seafood. Max’s Oyster Bar has received numerous awards such as Reader’s Choice Awards, including “Best Seafood Restaurant” in 2003 and 2005. Zagat’s Survey has also given the place an “extraordinary” rating of 26. 
 Pond House Cafe, 1555 Asylum Ave. Set on the grounds of Elizabeth Park in West Hartford, this cafe has creative cuisine that focuses on fresh and organic ingredients for seasonal favorites—with a twist. 
 Quaker Diner, 319 Park Road, ☏ +1 860 232-5523. Popular breakfast spot. 
 Tapas Restaurant, 1150 New Britain Ave. Serves Mediterranean cuisine in a casual, comfortable setting. The menu offers a variety of Greek, Israeli, Spanish, French and Middle Eastern dishes. Tapas is consistently recognized as one of central Connecticut's best Greek restaurants and as a vegetarian-friendly dining option 
 Effies Place, 91 Park Road, ☏ +1 860 233-9653. 
Drink[edit]
After a long day of traveling there are a couple great hot spots in West Hartford to grab a drink.

 Barcelona Restaurant and Wine Bar, 971 Farmington Ave, ☏ +1 860 218-2100. An award-winning Spanish tapas restaurant. 
 Corner Pug, 1046 New Britain Ave. Has the feel of a classic English pub with a pug theme. 
 b Restaurants, 138 Park Road, ☏ +1 860 231-1199. 
Sleep[edit]
 West Hartford Inn. This hotel offers a quiet and relaxing place to stay. The West Hartford Inn is within walking distance from the vibrant and trendy downtown area that includes Blue Back Square. The hotel is also in close proximity to well known historical sites such as the Noah Webster House, the Old State House and the oldest museum in the country, the Wadsworth Athneneum. For the guests' convenience there is free enclosed parking. A complimentary continental breakfast of hot beverages, juice, and pastries are also included in the stay at the West Hartford Inn. 
Go next[edit]


Routes through West Hartford




Waterbury ← Farmington ←

 W  E 

→ Hartford → Worcester


Bristol ← Farmington ←

 W  E 

→ Hartford → Providence


Poughkeepsie ← Avon ←

 W  E 

→ Hartford → Providence









This city travel guide to West Hartford is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=West_Hartford&oldid=4075711"