
Windsor is a town in Connecticut. It's the state's first English settlement, near the Connecticut River and Hartford. The city has a population of approximately 30,000. 


Get in[edit]
Map of Windsor (Connecticut)
By car[edit]
From north or south, 91 North or South. Exits for Windsor explicit. 
From east or west, 84 East or West. Exits for Windsor Explicit 

By train[edit]
See also: Rail travel in the United States
41.85213-72.642271 Windsor station, 41 Central Street. (updated Oct 2023)
 Amtrak, ☏ +1 215-856-7924, toll-free: +1-800-872-7245. Operates trains throughout the United States of America.   (updated Dec 2020) Routes stopping at Windsor:
Amtrak Hartford Line operating 3-5 trips per direction daily between Springfield and New Haven with stops in Windsor Locks, Windsor, Hartford, Berlin, Meriden, and Wallingford.
Northeast Regional operating twice daily between Springfield and Washington, D.C. with stops in Windsor Locks, Windsor, Hartford, Berlin, Meriden, Wallingford, New Haven, Bridgeport, Stamford, New Rochelle, New York City, Newark, Trenton, Philadelphia, Wilmington, Baltimore, and New Carrollton.
Valley Flyer operates twice daily between Greenfield and New Haven including stops in Northampton, Holyoke, Springfield, Windsor Locks, Windsor, Hartford, Berlin, Meriden, and Wallingford.
 CTrail Hartford Line, toll-free: +1-877-287-4337. Operates trains along the same route as the Amtrak Hartford Line. (updated Oct 2023)
By bus[edit]
Peterpan and Greyhound buses stop in Hartford.

By plane[edit]
Bradley International Airport located in Windsor Locks. Taxis available.

Get around[edit]
CT public transportation is marginally reliable. If coming from out of town, it's best to have your own car or rent one.

See[edit]
Vintage Radio and Communications Museum-a museum focusing on the history and development of communication and broadcast from Morse Code to the World Wide Web. Kid friendly. Located only a mile from the center of town.
The Huntington House Museum-museum located in the home of one of Windsor’s founding fathers. Quiet and quaint, located on Town Green.
Do[edit]
Windsor Public Library- A nice place to enjoy a quiet read. Visit their website for weekly activities for children and adult education.
North West Park- Located in Poquonock, park is great for hikes, walks, bike rides. Small farm to enjoy watching animals. Kid-friendly museum to explore Connecticut’s wildlife. Pavilion and grills available until dark.
Windsor High School Rec- Open to visitors after school and practice hours. Track in new condition. Indoor pool, outdoor pool seasonal. Baseball, Lacross, Football, and Soccer fields available.
Windsor River Trail- Located nearly across the street from Bart’s. Slightly hidden, driveway more like a circle, located on Palisado Ave. Gorgeous paved trails. Best before or after Spring, season flooding affects trains.
Ice Skating Rink - Located on town green approximately from late December to mid-March (weather permitting). Small outdoor rink, family friendly.
Buy[edit]
Geissler’s Supermarket--family owned grocery located in the center of town.
Pricerite- less expensive supermarket located near Hartford town line.
Eat[edit]
The town hall
Dom’s Eatery -A great hometown diner open for breakfast and lunch. Located in the center of town. Family oriented and fairly inexpensive, continental breakfasts and deli lunches.
Whistle Stop Cafe- Another hometown diner open for breakfast and lunch. Located in the center of town. “Windsor” themed and great for history buffs. Named after the railroad station located behind restaurant. Continental breakfasts and deli lunches.
Bart’s Drive-In- 1950s themed drive-in restaurant in historic Windsor. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner served. Breakfasts include omelette's and breakfast sandwiches, lunch and dinner offer hamburgers, hotdogs, french fries, and various fried sea food.
Jim’s Pizza- Italian restaurant, classy family sit-down dining. Pizza, pastas, various meats. Located in Poquonuck. Often venue for fundraisers, so check out ahead of time for family fun nights, etc.
Windsor 75 Diner- Average sit-down diner. Offers a menu with a large variety for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Kids friendly, offers crayons and children’ menus.
Tunxis Grill & Pizzeria- A less kid family restaurant, classy and somewhat along the lines of an 			Olive Garden. Offers indoor and outdoor dining. Sit-down bar and lounge. A more adult-geared menu of Italian up-scaled meals; seafood, veal, pastas, club sandwiches, gourmet salads.
Giovanni’s Pizza Restaurant- Sit down diner, more family friendly than Tunxis Grill. A long time 			Windsor establishment. Menu mainly Italian pastas and various pizzas. Also offers delivery. Coupons available online.
Drink[edit]
Union Street Tavern- offers both dining and comprehensive bar. Frequent Happy Hour and late night 		specials.
Buffalo Wild Wings Grill & Bar- Sport’s bar with walls of televisions for optimal viewing. Offers 		frequent game-day/night specials.
Sleep[edit]
41.872983-72.6666121 Courtyard Hartford Windsor, 1 Day Hill Rd, ☏ +1 860-683-0022. Located right off Interstate 91 in the suburbs of Hartford. $89. 
Go next[edit]


Routes through Windsor




Springfield ← Windsor Locks ←

 N  S 

→ Hartford → New Haven


Springfield ← Windsor Locks ←

 N  S 

→ Hartford → New Haven









This city travel guide to Windsor is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Windsor_(Connecticut)&oldid=4861094"