


Yardley is a borough in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. There are many things to do even though it is small and the attractions are a few car rides away. The area is friendly and safe with a lot of historical sites to visit. There is little congestion on the streets and is very quiet. It is known for a good school district and a reputation for welcoming visitors to the community.


Understand[edit]
Yardley was founded by William Yardley, who immigrated to America in July, 1682 with his family. He made an agreement with William Penn, before leaving England, to buy 500 acres for ten pounds. A survey was completed in October 1682, and the area William Yardley settled was called "Prospect Farm." It was just outside of the present Yardley Borough. William Yardley died in 1693, and his family in 1702-1703, possibly of smallpox.
A nephew, Thomas Yardley, came to America in 1704 to settle the estate and never returned to England. He opened a ferry line which started operating in 1710 from Letchworth Avenue, the lower boundary of the village, and landed in New Jersey further downstream. This was an important link between West Jersey and the three roads leading to Philadelphia by way of Falls, Langhorne and Newtown. The Yardley family occupied the land for more than 150 years.
When Yardley was founded there were already small settlements at nearby Burlington, Bristol, and Falls Ferry.
Yardley began to develop into a village about 1807, and by 1880 had a population of 820. Early industries included a spoke and handle factory, sawmill, felloe factory, plate and plaster mill, and two flour mills. The first post office, established in 1828, used the name "Yardleyville." The name became "Yardley" again at the time the Reading Railroad came through the area in 1876.
During the American Civil War, Yardley was a station for the Underground Railroad, an escape route for slaves. Known hiding places were under the eaves of the Continental Hotel (now the Continental Tavern), in bins of warehouses on the Delaware Canal (completed in 1862), and at the General Store (now Worthington Insurance). At Lakeside, the yellow house facing Lake Afton on N. Main St., one brick-walled cellar room is also thought to have been a hiding place.
Yardley Borough was incorporated on March 4, 1895.
The Train Collectors Association, which now boasts worldwide membership of 30,000 individuals, was founded in Yardley in 1954.

Get in[edit]
The two main ways to get into Yardley are by train (SEPTA) and car.
By train, the West Trenton Regional Rail through SEPTA.
By car, travel westbound on I-295 from Trenton, NJ and northbound on I-95 to I-295 from Philadelphia.

Get around[edit]
Map of Yardley

Cars are the most common mode of transportation in Yardley; however due to its relatively small size, walking and biking are also options.

See[edit]
 Pennsbury Manor, 400 Memorial Road in nearby Morrisville. The country home of William Penn that has a view of the Delaware river. The manor fulfilled his dreams for a country estate and he established Pennsylvania homes for the Quakers. The tours are reasonable priced; children five and under are free admission. If you save the ticket stub from the manor it is good toward reduced admission at any Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission listed in the Pennsylvania Trail of History brochure. 
September 11th Memorial - The newly constructed memorial is located off of Main Street in the Borough. This memorial includes a winding driveway leading up to a circular cement pathway which encases the five fountains in the middle. Names of the deceased from the area are engraved in a marble structure. Also featured in the memorial is a bathroom, pavilion and grills for picnics, and basketball courts.
Other attractions can be found in nearby New Hope and Doylestown.

Do[edit]
 Shady Brook Farm, 931 Stony Hill Road (take I-95 to exit 49 (Newtown/Yardley),follow route 332 west 1/4 mile to traffic light, turn left onto Stony Hill Road, entrance is 1/4 mile down on the right.), ☏ +1 215 968-1670, familyfun@shadybrookfarm.com. One of the last working farms in historic Bucks County. They hold special seasonal events such as Wine Concert Series, Pumpkin Fest, Horrorfest, and the Holiday Light show. Farm tours are offered in the spring,summer,and fall. The farm also has a deli, fresh produce,gift baskets, and an ice cream place. Lawn and garden supplies are also available for purchase including a wide selection of plants. It is a place where the whole family can have fun and be informed of the agriculture. 
 Bucks County River Country, 2 Walters Lane in nearby Point Pleasant, ☏ +1 215 295-5000. A place to visit late spring to summer that is Bucks County's oldest and most experienced Delaware River tubing and boating. Activities are open to all ages and it is a refreshing way to kick off summer. They have special promotions and season passes offered on their website. Reservations are encouraged and should be made for every trip especially on weekends. You can choose from kayaking, canoeing,rafting, or tubing. 
Lower Makefield Township park - By the free library and police station, the LMT park is a popular place for families in the area. The LMT community pool features four pools: a toddler pool with the water about ankle deep with a fountain in the middle, a kiddie pool, about 4 ft deep, the general pool that features a slide, two diving boards, and a high dive, and the racing pool which features buoys for races and practice. Also in the park is Kid's Kingdom, a community built wooden playground which rests on mulch for safe play. The park also includes two pavilions with 6 grills for picnics, two basketball courts, and four tennis courts, all under bright lights which can be turned on manually for safe recreation.
Yardley Community Day takes place in the LMT park and includes many different activities for residents during the month of September. Activities include a battle of the bands, face painting, mini-games for kids, and a fireworks show at night.
Harvest Day- During the fall season, the Yardley Borough closes down Main Street in order to hold this annual festival. Local vendors set up booths down the street and showcase a variety of goods including crafts and games. Free food is usually provided as well as live enterntainment.
Macclesfield Park- A huge sprawling field located off of River road, Macclesfield Park features four large soccer fields, three pavilions, and a sand volleyball court.
Yardley Country Club- The local golf club features a huge landscape which includes lakes and streams throughout the course. It is also a local sledding spot due to the large and steep hills that get icy during the winter.
Buy[edit]
 Oxford Valley Mall, 2300 E.Lincoln Highway in nearby Langhorne, ☏ +1 215 725-0221. 10AM-9:30PM. A neighbor to Sesame Place and surrounded by shopping plazas. There are restaurants the mall and a food court inside. You can find all the stores you love from home here. Stores include Macy's, Hot Topic, FYE, Hallmark, Sports Favorites, Gamestop, Borders Bookstore, Sears, Pacific Sunwear, Lenscrafters, Banana Republic, Hollister, Abercrombie & Fitch, Gap, Footlocker, and many more. 
McCaffrey's Super Market- The locally owned supermarket of the area offering reasonable prices in the strip mall on Oxford Valley Road. Once burned down, the new McCaffrey's has been restored and includes a downstairs and upstairs eat-in area as well as a Romper Room for kids to play while adults shop. McCaffrey's also features a Wine & Spirits Shoppe. Other shops in the strip mall include Rite Aid, Villa Rosa Pizza, Dry Cleaners, Charming Garden, Caribbean Tans, and a travel agency.
Giant Super Market- A grocery store chain in the same strip mall as McCaffrey's on Oxford Valley Road. Slightly lower prices but lacks the Romper Room and eat-in area.
Shoprite- A chain grocery store on Big Oak Road. Other shops in the strip mall include Hair Cuttery, Carlucci's Express, Carlucci's Grill, Baskin Robbins, Hallmark Gifts, Endurance Sports, PNC bank, Starbucks, and Kohl's.
Eat[edit]
The choices of where to eat are endless and most of the restaurants in Yardley are non-chain.

 Carlucci's Grill, 1633 Big Oak Rd. Oxford Oak Shopping Center. Offers an exceptional dining experience specializing in American, European, Italian, and Continental Cuisines. 
 Yardley Inn, East Afton Ave & Delaware Ave. Serves contemporary American cuisine.  Located on the banks of the Delaware River with exquisite views of the surrounding landscape from any table in the restaurant. 
 Canal Street Grill, 27 E. Afton Avenue, ☏ +1 215 321-1333. 11AM-9PM. Authentic Greek cuisine that has been in business since 1991. The dress is casual and smoking is not permitted. Alcohol is not served but wine glasses are provided for BYOB. Reservations are accepted for large groups only. It is affordable; a little high in price. 
 Vince's Pizza, 25 South Main Street, ☏ +1 215 493-1985. Su-Th 10AM-10PM, F Sa 10AM-11AM. A family restaurant that serves delicious pizza, pasta, and home-cooked meals. (updated Jun 2020)
 Mil-lee's, 75 South Main Street, ☏ +1 215 369-2400. A small breakfast and lunch diner that serves fresh food in a friendly environment that feels like home. The prices are cheap.. 
Yardley Ice House- A tradition for families in the area, The Yardley Ice House is off of Main Street in Yardley Borough. Both stock and seasonal flavors are all made in the store.
 Charcoal BYOB, 11 South Delaware Avenue, ☏ +1 215-93-6394. A local eatery off of River Road. Known for having an upscale modern American menu. 
Drink[edit]
 Starbucks, 1 N Main St, ☏ +1 215 321-8415. This particular Starbucks has a back patio overlooking Lake Afton. 
 Vault, 10 S Main St, ☏ +1 267 573-4291. A brewery with wine and food options as well. 
 Continental Tavern, 2 North Main Street, ☏ +1 215 493-9191. A place with a full bar that serves appetizers and entrees. Known for their burgers and sandwiches. The tavern is non-smoking and the staff is very friendly. 
Sleep[edit]
 Hampton Inn & Suites, 1000 Stony Hill Road, ☏ +1 215 860-1700. Has 137 rooms that are clean and comfortable. There is a Dunkin Donuts right infront of the property. They have an outdoor poll and exercise room. Every morning a complimentary breakfast is served to the guests. Not too far from Sesame Place and across from Shady Brook Farm. 
40.1846-74.86971 Sheraton Bucks County Langhorne, 400 Oxford Valley Road in nearby Langhorne, ☏ +1 215-547-4100. Check-in: 3PM, check-out: noon. In Langhorne which is about 15 minutes away from Yardley and 2 minutes away from Sesame Place. Has 186 rooms, an indoor heated pool, and health club facility. The property also has a restaurant called the University Grill and surrounds many eateries in the area as well as shopping. 
 Holiday Inn Express, 3101 W.Cabot Boulevard in nearby Langhorne, ☏ +1 215 757-4500. Has 88 guestrooms, an outdoor pool, and fitness center open 24 hr a day. Business services are provided and public service data. Complimentary breakfast is served. Sesame Place is a few minutes away. 
Go next[edit]
Newtown. A part of Bucks County and not far from Yardley. There are community attractions such as fairs and fundraisers, stores and shopping plazas,and fine dining.
Doylestown. There are unique shops and restaurants. It is like a small town and a very friendly environment.
New Hope. A very eclectic town and also where some motor cyclists go on weekends. It has very unique retail stores selling crafts, clothing, knick-knacks, jewelry, leather goods, art, and more. There are also fine dining and casual restaurants, bars, and theater. Off of Main Street you will find beautiful, winding, country roads and views of the Delaware River.
Langhorne, home of Sesame Place: a big theme park focused on children that has fun rides, games, waterslides, shows, and furry friends that everyone knows from the hit TV series Sesame Street. It is about 13 minutes away from the center of Yardley. The park is not opened year-round and is extremely busy during late spring to summer.


Routes through Yardley




Philadelphia ← Langhorne ←

 SW  NE 

→ Ewing → END








This city travel guide to Yardley is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.







Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Yardley&oldid=4690929"