
Yeongjong and Yongyu Islands (영종도, 永宗島, Yeongjong-do and 용유도, 龍游島, Yongyu-do), also spelled Yongjong are in Incheon, South Korea, just west of Seoul.


Understand[edit]
Formerly separate islands, Yeongjong and Yongyu have been joined together by Incheon's international airport, built between them on reclaimed land.  Most visitors head straight from the airport to the city, but the beaches and seafood restaurants here are an interesting way to spend a layover or escape Seoul for a day.

Get in[edit]
37°29′0″N 126°31′0″EMap of Yeongjong Island
By plane[edit]
Incheon Airport
Main article: Incheon International Airport
Futuristic Incheon International Airport (인천국제공항) (ICN IATA)  is South Korea's largest airport and the country's main international gateway.
For travel around the island, buses 223 and 203 connect the airport directly to Town, and there are limited services to Yeongjong Wharf and the west coast beaches.  As distances are short, taxis are also a viable option.

By train[edit]
Yeongjong Island is served by the AREX line, which connects Incheon Airport to Gimpo Airport and further on to Seoul Station as well.  Unseo (운서) station is located at Airport Town Square, near the transit hotels.

By bus[edit]
A local bus (Line 301, Kang-in [dead link]) trundles from Seoul's Yeongdeungpo Station (Line 1) through Gimpo and Incheon Airports to Muuido and Eulwang Beach. At only W5700 this is the cheapest option, but the trip takes one hour and thirty minutes. You can ride this buses at Dangsan station (Line 2), Balsan station (Line 5), Songjeong station (Line 5). From Dangsan Station take exit 1 and walk straight past the McDonald's. The bus stop is about a 3-5 minute walk down the street. There is another bus line from Dong-Incheon station (Line 306, Kang-in, W4100) in Incheon. Directions from Yeongdungpo Station: Walk out of exit 3 and down the escalators. You will see a street straight ahead that runs perpendicular to the road that the station is on. Walk down that street (same side as Holly's Coffee) about 2 minutes and you will see a bus stop and you can catch the 301 (a red bus) there.

By ferry[edit]
The most scenic option is to take a car ferry from Wolmido in Incheon to Yeongjong Pier at the southeast corner of the island.  Ferries run every 20–30 minutes from 07:00 to 21:30, the trip takes 15 minutes and costs just ₩1,500.
There are also direct high-speed and regular ferries directly from Muuido to Incheon's Yeon-an Pier, but they only run three times a day (08:00, 10:30 and 17:00).

By car[edit]
The 300-meter Yeongjong Grand Bridge links the island to the mainland.

Get around[edit]
The AREX airport express line runs through the western half of Yeongjong, with Unseo station (6 min, ₩1000 from airport) serving the Airport Town Square district.
Bus 202 runs around the south and west coasts of the island hourly, connecting most points of interest including Yeongjong Pier, Jamjindo and the beaches (₩1200, hourly).
From Unseo Station, you can take buses and taxis to Sammok Pier. From Sammok Pier, you can visit the islands of Yeongjongdo, Sindo, Shido, and Jangbong Island by boat, and the islands are popular with anglers and hikers. The boat rides are inexpensive at around 3,000 won, and all arrive in around 30 minutes.

See[edit]
The primary attractions for most visitors are the beaches. Watch out for tides: at low tide, the waters pull back to reveal vast mud flats.

 Eurwangni Beach, West coast. Also spelled Ulwangli, this is most popular of the island's beaches, as the water doesn't recede as much here. Motels, restaurants, karaoke rooms and all you need for a Korean-style beach experience. There are fireworks at night on weekends. 
 Muuido (Take Bus 222 to Jamjindo and then a ferry to this island.). Here you will find a fishing village, some cheap seafood restaurants, the quiet Hanagae Beach and the swimming pool-equipped Keunmuri Resort 
 Silmi Island. This island is accessible from Muuido at low tide. It is an uninhabited island with a number of small beaches. 
 Yonggungsa Temple, 667 Unnam-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon. A small town located in the central part of the island, Yeongjong-dong, hosts a nearby 7th century Buddhist temple. (updated Apr 2015)
Do[edit]
 Unseo Sauna (To reach the sauna from Unseo Station, simply cross the street at the light and walk straight two blocks to the next light and turn right.  Walk one block and at the next light turn left and cross the street.  The sauna is on the 6th floor of the building immediately on your left.  Enter the building in the door adjacent to the pharmacy.). Visitors to New Airport City wishing to enjoy a sauna may do so in the downtown area several blocks away from the subway station. 
 BMW Driving Center. An automotive theme park on 240,000 square meters of land with six tracks. You can choose between BMW and Mini cars in driving courses that run from 10 minutes to 3 hours on diverse road conditions including off road, slippery, railroad and forest roads.  Additionally there is a museum, showroom and a training center. ₩100,000 to ₩220,000. 
Eat[edit]
Seafood is the thing to eat here.  You can buy your own at the Yeongjong Pier market and have it cooked up in any of the restaurants nearby.
The area around Unseo station has a number of restaurants and bars, and can be a good way to spend an evening. A particular reputation is the Japanese cuisine at Osaka opposite the Hotel Sevilla. The area also has a Lotte Mart for those travelling on a budget and requiring provisions.

Drink[edit]
Sleep[edit]
Airport Town Square has a series of hotels aimed squarely at overnighting travellers.  Many offer free pick-up.
However, for adventurous travellers it can be worth attempting to find a 'love motel'. They range in quality and price, but almost always have rooms available, and are considerably cheaper than the hotels on Yeongjong island, and will have a good sized bed and be clean. Any subway station on the mainland, easy to reach via the Arex train line, will have motels. The word is the same in Korean, and any local will know of their location. Prices range from ₩40,000-70,000.

Budget[edit]
 Spa on Air, ☏ +82 32-743-7042 (English available). A 찜찔방 (jjimjilbang or sauna) that allows you to take communal showers and time to relax in the spas in gender segregated areas.  It's located in the basement of the airport. Just look for Sauna on the map when you reach the basement. 
Mid-range[edit]
 [dead link] HotelSKY Incheon Airport (10 min drive from ICN Airport), ☏ +82 32-752-1101, fax: +82 32-752-1109, info@hotelsky.co.kr. Free internet and computer, free airport transfers. The staff speaks English, Japanese, French, and Thai. Hotel blog: [1]. Double W77,000. 
 Airport Hotel June Incheon, ☏ +82 32-746-4417. 48 rooms, free Wi-Fi, 48" plasma TV. Western-style restaurant, steam sauna. Double ₩100000. 
 [dead link] Hotel Airpark (에어파크 호텔), ☏ +82 32-752-2266. Comfortable transit hotel with large but near-windowless rooms. Every room has free Internet and a vending machine dishing out anything from grilled squid to glow-in-the-dark condoms. Transfers to airport provided, steer clear of the horrible restaurant downstairs. Double W80000. 
 Hotel Queen Incheon Airport, ☏ +82 32-747-0070. Free internet and computer, LCD TV. Breakfast-only restaurant (extra W10,000), steam sauna, jacuzzi. Double W85,000 (internet rate). 
Splurge[edit]
 Hyatt Regency Incheon, 2850-1 Woonseo-dong, Jung-gu (two minutes from Incheon International Airport), ☏ +82 32 745-1234, reservation@hyattregencyincheon.com. Large, standard-issue 5 star hotel featuring state of the art meeting facilities. The hotel also has a spa, gym and a 25 metre indoor pool. King W160,000. 
Hotel Grand Incheon Airport.
Go next[edit]
Incheon
Seoul





This city travel guide to Yeongjong Island is a usable article. It has information on how to get there and on restaurants and hotels. An adventurous person could use this article, but please feel free to improve it by editing the page.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Yeongjong_Island&oldid=4857236"